[music]
We are still seeing that investors are
sitting on the sidelines of this market.
>> There has been a shift in sentiment
[music] and you're starting to see some
deterioration in some of the key themes.
>> The equity market has to climb.
Basically, you know, the traditional
wall of worry.
>> You have an equity market that broadens
and rotates a little bit.
>> As we think about next year, we do like
equities. We do like US equities in
particular. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance [music] with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and Ann Marie
Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks inching back to
record highs with optimism fueled by
ongoing resilience among US consumers.
All eyes turning to next week's Fed rate
decision as potential Fed chair Kevin
Hasset supports a 25 basis point rate
cut and some inflation data coming up
with today's PCE report from September.
and you miss sentiment data trying to
fill in the gaps ahead of that key
meeting next week. It is should be a
non-farm payrolls Friday. Instead, it is
a what University of Michigan in
September PCE data kind of Friday. But
we do know that the Fed has reacted in
the past to the University of Michigan.
Although we do know that [music] it is
incredibly partisan. Everyone usually
comes out and says how they're feeling
based off the economy, based off their
political [music] lines. Although there
could be some interest in that.
Obviously, when it comes to PCE, this is
the Fed's preferred inflation gauge, but
it's from September. So, does it even
matter that we're getting this data
today? Right now, what I'm looking at is
the fact that small caps are at a new
record high, even though you are about a
half a percent away from it. When you
look at the broader indices, when you
take a look since the end of April, the
Russell 2000 has returned almost 30%. It
is only 5 percentage points behind what
the what the NASDAQ has performed as. So
it raises this issue of how dependent is
this index the sort of small business
indicator to any Fed rate cuts versus
something else versus a real kind of
momentum in the consumer in the United
States.
>> Well, I think this chart speaks to two
things. One is that you were able to get
through liberation day and the low of
the low of this administration in terms
of the market and then of course the
bond market really pushing back being
that barometer and then everything was
off to the races there because they
realize that Trump is not going to be as
aggressive when it comes to trade
policy. At the same time, maybe there is
a real broadening out, especially if you
have a Kevin Hasset potentially, as the
president said, a potential next Fed
[music] chair talking about yes 25 next
week and then that's what he would like
to see continued as well into 2026.
>> How long do we have to do this for?
[music] I'm just curious like the Kevin
Hasset sort of is he or isn't he?
>> Well, it was supposed to be the fall and
then it was supposed to be Christmas
[music] and now it's sometime in the new
year.
>> Sounds like a fun game. Right now, we're
seeing markets uh basically continuing
to grind higher. It has been a slow
grind, nonetheless a consistent grind
with the [music] fourth potential uh
consecutive day of increases. S&P
futures up almost 2/10en of a percent.
You are seeing bond yields continue to
inflect just slightly higher closer to
that 411 uh% level and crude prices off
by about 2/10en of a percent. Today
[music] you got to wait until 10 a.m. to
get that dated PCE data from September.
That's what we [music] get that core PCE
as well as spending and income. Then at
10 a.m. also we get that University of
Michigan sentiment survey. Coming up
this hour, [music] Chris Veron of
Strategus as stocks look to round out
the week with a fourth day of gains.
John Lieieber of Eurasia Group is Russia
Ukraine peace talks hit a snag and Jill
Carrie Hall of Bank of America with
small cap stocks as we were just
mentioning at record highs. We begin
this hour with stocks rising after
closing near all-time highs. Chris Veron
of Strategus, a bear company who, by the
way, was just ranked second among Wall
Street's macroeconomists in an annual
exile survey, writing this. As the
calendar starts to run out on 2025, we
continue to see more signs of positive
inflection from the real economy and the
market's daily message. Chris joins us
now. Chris, first of all,
congratulations. Very exciting. And it
comes at a time where there is more
optimism. We're talking about the
Russell 2000. Does this come with real
sense that the overall economy is doing
a lot better?
>> Well, I think there's clearly been a
soft patch in 3Q, 4Q, but maybe more
importantly, I think the market's
looking through it and you see it as we
write in the daily message, the daily
prices when you look at say the
transports breaking out here, the
regional banks, the discretionary stocks
have all inflected, copper making new
highs. So, I think there's a lot of
almost reflationary procyclical tones
starting to weave their way uh through
the market's message here. And you know,
you look out to 2026 and I think it
tells us that really the tone is
changing from, you know, after years of
all the excess liquidity being soaked up
by the speculative economy, I think the
excess liquidity is now being soaked up
by the real economy moving forward. Very
important theme for us uh into 2016.
>> Do you think that this is getting ahead
of what we can see with respect to labor
market gains? Do you think that this is
actually coming in tandem with that that
hasn't necessarily been picked up by the
data? In other words, is this already
underway or is this anticipated
reaceleration on the heels of Fed rate
cuts later this year uh next week as
well as earlier next year?
>> I think it's a little bit of both. And
kind of if you look at the trajectory of
Fed policy in 26, I really don't think
it matters who's the Fed chair. I mean,
the 2-year yield this entire time has
been remarkably stable at about 350.
That's probably where policy is going. I
mean, think back just a couple weeks
ago. Everyone was pulling their hair
about, oh, is the Fed going to cut in
December or not cut in December, I think
the odds got down to like 25% uh at one
point. You know what [snorts] never
moved? If you look at June 26, uh Fed
funds futures, they were always about
330, 340. So, I think the trajectory is
pretty set. I suspect we'll get two more
cuts here, but remember, most global
central banks have been cutting for the
last year. So I think a lot of this kind
of market looking through some of the
soft patch data is also in response to
what we've seen globally uh over the
last year.
>> Do you think this is going to be a
hawkish cut though?
>> Yeah, I I again I don't really think it
ma it probably is. That's what the
economist will say. I'm just not sure it
matters. Um the two-year yield is
telling us I I'm a believer. Let's focus
on the market rate, not the policy rate.
Right. The market rate's 350. That
probably where policy is getting whether
it happens over two meetings or three
meetings. I don't think the market cares
too much when you look at this
procyclical tone starting to rework its
way uh through the tape. That's what I
think is most important going forward.
>> You also spent a lot of time in
Washington DC. I'd love to get your take
on the Fed race.
>> I mean, at one point does it even matter
because we know the direction of travel,
but do you really think it is going to
be Kevin Hass?
>> Well, I'll make a couple points. Uh, I
would say number one, I I do think we're
in this uh pretty important shift where
the shadow of the Fed or the shadow of
the Fed share is probably getting
shorter over financial markets than what
we've been used to certainly since the
financial crisis, but maybe even going
all the way back to Greenspan uh and
Vulker where really the Fed was the
dominant player. I think that that
pendulum has shifted to Treasury here.
It's almost a bit of a kind of a
reminder of what the 1950s looked like
in that regard where Treasury shadow
over [snorts]
uh financial markets and the bond
markets uh was so large. So I think this
pendulum has shifted. I think it frankly
began with the Yellen Treasury going
back to the last administration. Um so
that has been underway here. you know,
at the end of the day, whether it's
Hasset, whether it's Worsh, whether it's
Waller, I don't think the trajectory of
Fed policy is dramatically different
over the next 12 months here. And you
know, I I I would add one more point.
You know, all this attention about it
being um has it, you know, what didn't
make new highs on this news is gold
didn't, right? You know, what hasn't
really moved is 5 year, 5 year forward.
So, I think the market's pretty
comfortable no matter who ultimately it
is. I want to dig into this idea that
the US Treasury has a greater influence
especially in light of the story that
came out that the US Treasury market is
now $30 trillion. Uh it has doubled
since 2018 and there's been a real
question how has the market absorbed all
this issuance in an okay way and the
reason it really does lie with the
Yellen Fed and now the best the Yellen
Treasury and then the the best in
Treasury a question of disproportionate
issuance on the front end. Is that the
reason why you think supply isn't going
to disrupt long-term benchmark rates to
the degree that some people were
expecting? Yeah, you know, actually, if
you look at a long-term time series,
we're still below kind of uh on the
short end what the average issuance
typically is. I I think there's more
room to expand issuance on the short end
here. I would also just know and and
we've written this all year. I mean,
ironically, the US bond market has been
the envy of the world this year when you
look at what Japanese JGB yields have
done. I mean, even German 30-year yields
are back at the highs right now. US ts
have been in the same range they've been
in for the last 3 years. So I think
until you get some resolution either
above 475 or below 375, you look at the
shape of the US Treasury curve and you
say it's relatively stable. It has been.
My suspicion is global curves do want to
reepen here though. We saw three-month
tenure in the US this week make about a
six seven-month high. US 230s are
starting to rest deepen. What is that
good for? Real economy type stuff.
Regional banks are following that.
>> Well, this is exactly where I wanted to
go. Does this backdrop support the idea
of the broadening out and maybe the
overall index isn't going to rise as
much as some people think because you
might not get the participation in the
same kind of way as big with big tech,
but that that broadening out trade is
actually going to come to to pass in a
more material way in 2026.
>> Yeah, it's funny. I I was um heading
over here this morning. I was reading
the FT and they had all the uh bank
strategists where their S&P forecasts
are for 2026 and and they're all, you
know, 7500, 7,800. Um
targets are targets. Uh we're in the
business of direction and trend. Uh I
think the trend is up. Uh it won't be a
straight line. Uh as uh we know but I
think maybe more importantly it does
look like the the complexion of the
leadership is evolving here. I mean for
the first time in 3 years energy is
involved for the first time in a number
of years. Healthcare uh is involved.
Consumer discretionary you know we talk
about the miss survey today. You know,
ironically, you want to be buying
consumer discretionary stocks when
consumer sentiment is as poor as it is
right now. You've seen the transport
start to wake up here as well. So, all
of this has this real economy vibe that
frankly has been elusive for markets for
much of the last several years.
>> We did basically an entire conversation
of 10 minutes without mentioning AI. Do
you still think we're going to see new
highs when it comes to artificial
intelligence, Nvidia next year?
>> These stocks are still in uptrends. Uh,
Nvidia still is in an uptrend despite
it. correcting here. Uh broadcast still
in an uptrend. Taiwan 7 is still in an
uptrend. Um but I think they're becoming
less of the main show here. Um what I
want to watch and this is really kind of
going back into our work from 99200 and
remembering you know what started to
shift. It was all the the internet
posers or the derivatives um or the
adjacent internet stocks that peaked
first before they got to the main show
which was the Cisco uh and all the like.
So I think when you kind of compare that
to today, watch all the quote AI
derivatives today. Um my suspicion is
they would peak first before Nvidia
peaked for Broadcom peaked. So that's
kind of how we're thinking about you
know what what's the appropriate analog
or uh approach here?
>> Yeah. Data centers for example at what
point do they peak out?
>> Well, they trade terrible actually. I
mean if you look at DLR or Equinex um
those are the two publicly traded big
data centers. They're in bare markets.
So that's probably the one place where I
think the market's already pushed back
against the idea.
>> Chris Veron, wonderful to see you. Thank
you so much for being with us. Chris
Verone of Strategus talking about how
much we are seeing the real economy come
back and AMH just think about copper and
how it's reached one record high after
another. people pointing to the need for
supply, the stockpiling by a lot of
countries ahead of this AI buildout
>> and also the fact that they're trying to
get a lot of copper into the United
States because there is a little bit of
uncertainty in this market and that's
the president did say he's going to
revisit whether or not he's going to put
the duties up, the tariffs up when it
comes to copper and if you're in this
trade, you want to get ahead of that.
>> Yeah, city analysts forecasting a 2 and
a half% rise in global enduse
consumption by the end of next year.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your Bloomberg brief with Vonnie.
Bonnie, Lisa, thank you so much and good
morning to [music] both of you. The US
urging several countries in the European
Union to block the EU's plan [music] to
use frozen Russian central bank assets
to back a massive loan to Ukraine.
According to European diplomats familiar
with the matter, officials are arguing
two member states [music] that the
assets are needed to help secure a peace
deal between Keev and Moscow and
shouldn't [music] be used to prolong the
war.
National Economic Council Director Kevin
Hasset said the Federal Reserve should
cut interest rates at [music] its
meeting next week. Hasset expects the
central bank to cut by 25 basis points,
but said he wants to quote get to a much
lower rate over the long run. [music]
His comments coming as speculation grows
that President Donald Trump is preparing
to nominate him to lead the central
bank.
Warner Brothers Discovery entering
exclusive negotiations now to sell its
film and TV [music] studios and HBO Max
streaming service to Netflix. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the
streaming giant is offering a $5 billion
breakup fee if regulators don't approve
the deal. The two companies could
announce a deal in as soon as the coming
days. [music] And that is your Bloomberg
reach. Lisa,
>> thank you so much Vonnie Quinn. Up next,
Europe on the hook for Ukraine.
>> This is a European issue. This is
something that Europe is trying to deal
with. We want to make America great
again, but we'd like Europe to be right
there with us. John Lieieber of Eurasia
Group joins us next [music] with futures
higher on the morning. Potentially the
fourth straight day of gains. This is
Bloomberg.
[music]
>> [music]
>> It looks like the Santa Claus rally is
underway. What you are seeing is
potentially the setup for a fourth
straight day of gains with stocks
nearing new record highs. You already
have a record high on the S&P uh on the
Russell 2000. The S&P less than half a
percent away from that now up 210 of a
percent. NASDAQ futures up 4/10en of a
percent. Big question mark is in the
bond space. Michael Hartnett over at
Bank of America said that the only thing
that can stop a Santa Claus rally is a
dovish Fed cut causing a sell-off in the
long end. Right now, you are seeing that
slight yield curve steepening with
30-year yields [music] up just about a
basis point 4.76%.
10-year yields up about a basis point as
well. A real question here, Anyway,
about the credibility of [music] a
dovish pivot for a Federal Reserve at a
time where the economic data isn't that
bad.
>> That could basically spook the market.
Maybe [music] they then would expect
that oh no if the Fed is really really
nervous then the economic slowdown might
be worse than some of the data we are
seeing [music] suggest. We're going to
get a lot of a clearer picture not next
week but when we get the non-farm
payrolls [music] report the following
week and then at that point we could see
was the Fed prudent in their decision
depending on what they say in their
commentary or not.
>> Also a big question is the inflation and
the cost of living inputs. If you take a
look at natural gas over in Europe it
has been actually falling in the United
States not so much. Natural gas prices
have been increasing. A real question
and focus on geopolitics under
surveillance this morning. Europe
[music] on the hook for Ukraine.
>> This is a European issue. This is
something that Europe is trying to deal
with. Uh if you want to know where the
United States stands on it, you'll have
to talk to uh Ambassador Witoff or uh or
Secretary Rubio or Jared Kersner who are
very involved in these negotiations. We
want to make America great again, but
we'd like Europe to be right there with
us. Here's the latest. European sources
saying the US urges several U E EU
members uh to block plans that would use
frozen Russian assets to back loans to
Ukraine. Uh Bloomer's Rich Bravo joins
us now from Brussels. Rich, great to see
you. I'm just curious from your
perspective what you think the
motivation is in saying hold off, don't
use these loans just yet to back up uh
Ukraine even as Europe really bears the
onus for financing the ongoing war.
Yeah, that's exactly right. I mean, the
the burden really is on the Europeans
now since the US has pulled back its
support, its financial support for
Ukraine. So, it really is up to the
Europeans to uh make those financial
pledges to Ukraine. And the reason why
the US has our reporting says that the
reason why the the US is um pushing the
Europeans not to use these assets is
Washington would prefer to use these
assets uh as a means of leverage to try
and broker a peace deal between Moscow
and Kev. Um so it it really is a tough
situation for the Europeans. They know
that uh Ukraine's funding will run out
at some point in the beginning of next
year and they're struggling to really
get um this this massive loan proposal
across the line on a domestic front. Um
then to have the US lobbying against it
really puts um Brussels in a tough
position.
>> Just quickly here, Rich, what do
Europeans suggest in terms of how to
bring an end to the conflict, not just
finance, uh the ongoing defense against
Russia?
Well, I mean, one thing they want to
make sure is just bolster Ukraine as
much as they can. make sure they have
money, make sure they have weapons, and
they're able to continue um
fighting this war in a way and keep the
front line where it is so that when a
ceasefire does happen, if a ceasefire
does happen, the the battle lines are
somewhere advantageous so that they they
do have more leverage to to um negotiate
an end to the war.
>> Rich Bravo, thank you so much for being
with us this morning. Really appreciate
it. Joining us now is John Liieber of
Eurasia Group. John would love your
sense of what the United States is doing
in their approach to uh suggesting that
the European Union members do not extend
these loans to Ukraine. What do you
think the endgame here is?
>> I mean the endgame in the Russia Ukraine
war it probably is going to be decided
either on the battlefield or with the
Russian economy because those are the
two variables that are most likely to
drive an outcome. But with the immediate
question of financing the ongoing war um
you know this is a real challenge. Uh it
wasn't clear that the Europeans were
going to be able to co coalesce around a
plan to use these frozen Russian assets
in the first place. We we believe they
probably will and they'll probably do it
this month. If they don't or if they
can't and these objections from the US
and and and Belgium are of course real
and and present serious obstacles. But
if they can't, then we also think that
more common borrowing is likely to
happen in order to support Ukraine. The
Europeans are very committed to their
defense. And we don't see a scenario
right now where they don't find a way to
deliver more money to Ukraine either
from Russia or from their own uh their
own ability, their own their own purse.
John, we also have the US national
security strategy released this morning
from the president of the United States
and he talks about Europe and he says
the larger issues facing Europe include
activities of the EU and other
transnational bodies that undermine
political liberty and sovereignty,
migration policies that are transforming
the continent and creating strife. It's
it's really critical of the European
Union. How far apart is this
administration right now between
Brussels?
Yeah, I don't think the I don't think
the Europeans have a lot of fans inside
the Trump administration. This is not an
administration that prioritizes
multilateralism. Uh it's not uh you
know, President Trump sees the European
Union combined as a way to threaten the
United States. And and in a way, he's
got a point. I mean, the whole point of
the the trading block is to be stronger
together than any individual country is
separately. And of course, that
represents a threat to the world's uh
largest most powerful c country. Um, you
know, this is and and you and I think
that it's interesting that they
mentioned migration in the national
security strategy. This was, of course,
one of the focuses of JD Vance's speech
that he gave at the Munich Security
Conference this last year, that
individual countries were being robbed
of their sovereignty and forced to
accept this immigration uh policy they
didn't agree with. Uh, and that was
fundamentally upending these societies,
which of course is core to the sort of
MAGA argument about the United States.
So, this is, you know, we're in a new
world now and these these these
alliances, this multilateral approach
that the US used to lead is simply not
something that the Trump admin
administration cares about. I think the
Europeans should be very concerned about
this approach. Uh, and this new tone
from the administration. Um, and I don't
see anything that's going to help it get
better.
>> Do you think though we can get a deal on
Ukraine without the Europeans at the
table?
Uh uh yes, I do think you can get a deal
on Ukraine without the Europeans at the
table, but it's not going to be one
that's good for Ukraine or Europe
because I mean, one of the big threats
throughout 2025 is that the US and
Russia just decide to get together and
force uh a peace plan on the Ukrainians
that's unacceptable to both them and
Europe. That those odds have faded and I
don't think that's likely to happen
right now. Um, but you see Trump's
increasing interest in getting this deal
with Russia and you see him more
desperate to get a peace deal and that's
going to continue into 2026. And that's
bad news for the Ukrainians who look
like they are on their back feet right
now on the battlefield and are going to
have serious attrition problems and
serious problems fighting this war uh
going into next year. So they are in an
in looks like they are in an
increasingly weaker position as the US
is more uh interested in aligning with
Russia to end the war and that's a bad
that's bad news for the Europeans
obviously.
>> John just taking a step back it seems
like the US is getting increasingly
involved in a number of geopolitical
issues whether it's the UK Ukraine uh
Russian negotiations or whether it's
with Venezuela at the same time
increasing questions mounting around
Pete Hegsath and his leadership of the
defense department. I'm just wondering
for your perspective uh how much that
complicates some of the United States's
uh geopolitical involvements given the
sort of ongoing question of his fate and
the support of the president.
>> I mean Hegs isn't exactly uh I I think
he's bit of a figurehead role at the
Department of War as they're calling it.
I think if you look at foreign policy a
lot of this is being driven clearly out
of the White House. Marco Rubio is an
incredibly influential adviser being
both a national security adviser and the
secretary of state and Trump's also
surrounded himself with a number of
people that he's known a long time who
he trusts quite deeply and we heard this
in the clip prior to this people like
Jar Jared Kushner and Steve Witoff. So
Hex's credibility and his role at the
Department of Defense I think matters
for uh deploying military assets which
of course the US has no problem in doing
but I don't think he's one of the key
drivers and shapers of US foreign policy
right now that is coming from Trump his
immediate advisers and of course Marco
Rubio.
>> John Lieieber of Eurasia Group thank you
so much for being with us as we look to
what the US is requesting from Europe.
Europe wanted to seize these loans, use
them, Russian assets, use them for
financing to Ukraine to continue gaining
leverage ahead of these negotiations. A
real question of any kind of critical
mass, an agreement and issuing common
debt to support those efforts if this
doesn't come through.
>> Potentially, they're going to have to,
but how challenging is that going to be
for Europe right now? Also, this needs
to get through um Belgium where these
funds are. And I think you have serious
concerns within Belgium that potentially
these funds can go out to Ukraine. But
then if a deal is struck and Russia
comes back and says, "We want those
funds." Who is going to be left on the
hook to pay for them?
>> Yeah. And what does this do in terms of
the demand for gold? Remember back when
the United States kicked off this
discussion around potentially seizing
Russian assets? That's when you first
started to see gold pick up and shift
away from the dollar. The dollar has
been actually on a weakening trend.
Although real questions emerge as you do
see strength in the US economy. Coming
up, Jill Carrie Hall of Bank of America
with small caps at arbiter of just how
much strength there is at a record high.
Plus, you hire an end with your morning
movers. Ulta rising with consumers
continuing to spend [music] on
cosmetics. Good morning. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> We are potentially seeing another record
high just inching back toward that on
the S&P 500. Equities more broadly
[music]
doing uh really well led by the small
caps. Not today. You're seeing small
caps up just uh barely just a touch
above flat. [music] Nasdaq futures up
4/10en of a percent regaining the lead
with the S&P up two ten of a percent.
The Nasdaq hit a record high a while
back. It is up 35% since the end of
April. The Russell 2000 has returned
almost 30% in that same period. Why?
Potentially because there could be more
Fed easing that could potentially pave
the [music] way to greater
reaceleration. If you look at twos,
tens, and 30s, yields just climbing a
touch on the long end in response to any
kind of potential Fed rate cuts that
might come without the commensurate
weakness. I keep going back to this
Amory. [music] Michael Hartnett over at
Bank of America talking about what could
potentially kill the Santa Claus rally,
saying it would have to be a dovish cut,
indicating further rate cuts [music]
coming in the year ahead. This would
lead to a rise in the long end of the
yield curve. Yes, you also potentially
could get pessimism [music] in the
overall economy, but it also speaks to
an overall dovish tilt at a time where
the economic data is [music] not
screaming pain. The economic data is not
screaming pain and the consumer is
resilient. As Muhammad Alen said, if you
look through, even if you do see
individuals [music] being choice while
maybe trading down, the consumer is
still going out and spending. I think
it's going to be interesting the first
three months of next year. [music] As a
consumer spending today, because they
know they're going to get those tax
refunds and it's going to be an
incredibly challenging environment next
[music] year. And what the political
polls are showing is that consumers are
saying it has been hard to keep up in
this affordability. [music]
What Michael Hartnett is saying is
interesting because usually you think
doubbishness good, we're off to the
races. what he's saying. This might
actually say to investors actually the
Fed might be more worried [music] than
you are.
>> Yeah. And is the Dollar General and
Walmart gains a good thing or a signal
of pain elsewhere? 3 hours away from the
cash open. Here are your morning movers
with Yahira [music] on end. Yahira.
>> Hi Lisa. We start with Ulta. Those
shares are rising in the pre-market
after the company raised its [music]
fullear outlook on strong results
highlighting consumers reluctance to
give up their beauty rout routines
despite cutting back elsewhere. [music]
And the CEO says they're off to a strong
start this holiday season because
apparently [music] she says more people
are planning to gift beauty products
during the holidays. Meanwhile, HPE not
having the same luck. Those shares are
down 9 and a half% in the pre-market
after the company delivered a softer
than expected sales outlook. A blow to
hopes that that high server demand, AI
server demand would drive a bigger
[music] jump in revenue. And part of
that weakness was due to order delays
with the CEO saying that big government
and European deals slipped into [music]
2026. And that was an issue with a data
center delay not being uh up and ready
[music] yet and the government shutdown.
And we end on SoFi. Those shares falling
7.3% [music]
in the pre-market after the company
announced the share sale of $1.5
billion, which of course is a diluting
event. But it follows a massive rally
with the with the with the market cap
nearly [music] doubling this year. So it
is striking while the iron's hot with
plans to use that fresh capital to fund
future growth. And BI says that it
wouldn't be surprising to see SoFi
pursue M&A given [music] this move.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahara, on our radar
this morning, the US urging EU members
to block a massive loan to Ukraine
backed by frozen Russian assets. use. US
officials arguing the assets must be
saved to secure a peace deal, not to
prolong the war. Elsewhere, more
threads. A leading Chinese AI chipmaker
founded by a former Nvidia executive
jumping over 425%
in its Shanghai trading debut. The move
fueling optimism for China's goal of
achieving tech self-sufficiency amidst
trade tensions and raises a question
about national champions around the
world and how much investors are trying
to chase the backing that comes from
corporations.
>> And if you think that Nvidia is not
going to play the long game or be able
to because of national security concerns
in the United States in China, who is
going to fill that void? And what better
than someone who actually used to work
at Nvidia at the helm of this company?
But I think this shows that this really
is, as Jensen Wong will tell you, China
neck andneck with the United States when
it comes to AI. And I wonder if this
story actually plays into all the
lobbying efforts he is doing in
Washington trying to tell policy makers,
at least in his view, we should get
China and the rest of the world addicted
to our tech so that we are not competing
with them at this level.
>> Yeah. And this is one reason why you are
hearing that drum beat an increasing
shift in the view of what national
security looks like. It also though
highlights how much uh countries are
choosing national champions and they're
saying whether it's Intel or whether
it's this one. These are the ones that
we want to win. Whether they will win is
another story and I think we are writing
the book in real time on just how much
this will be successful. Yes, the
initial pop. Yes. But in historical
context is these haven't always been the
biggest winners in the end.
>> True. Haven't always been the biggest
winners. You could see that at least in
China they do pick winners and losers
and will put a lot of effort behind
that. We are seeing some of that state
capitalism also in the United States but
is because semiconductors are just not
important for your iPhones and consumer
products. These are important companies
and industries for things like the
military which is why you see really
this out proportional emphasis from
governments on these types of companies.
>> Yes indeed and we'll keep tracking this.
as Warner Brothers Discovery meanwhile
entering exclusive talks to sell its
film and TV studios along with HBO Max
to Netflix. Sources are telling us here
at Bloomberg a 5 billion dollar breakup
fee is on the table if regulators block
the deal which could be announced in the
coming days. Both those shares uh
trading lower in pre-market activity.
Just uh getting a headline that is
crossing currently and it kind of builds
on what we've seen from other airline
companies. Delta in particular saying
that the hit that they're going to
experience from the government shutdown
significant. Southwest coming out and
cutting their fullear forecast saying
that they see the full year Abby about
500 million versus the expectation
previously of 600 million to 800
million. A real question here how much
this is a shutdown capacity. How much is
this demand from people who are less
well healed? We'll bring you uh any
information as we get it. Those shares
lower by 2.3%
in pre-market trading. One of the small
caps we're keeping an eye on given the
fact that this has been the
outperforming sector. Turning to those
small caps, the Russell 2000 closing at
a fresh record high ahead of the Fed's
widely expected rate cut next week. Jill
Carrie Hall of Bank of America writing,
"We see support for small caps from
improving earnings, guidance trends, and
Fed cuts." Jill joins us now. Jill,
thank you so much for being with us. I
want to start with a real question. How
much are small caps doing better because
of an expectation of Fed rate cuts? and
how much are they doing better because
their actual businesses are doing really
well.
>> I think both are a big part of it. I
mean really over the last two years
you've seen this increased sensitivity
of the Russell 2000 to to Fed
expectations and and the factors driving
that. Um and so that's been been one big
driver and one reason we got more
constructive uh in August because Fed
cuts were were projected to restart. Um
but I think you know one reason we had
been cautious on small caps for a lot of
earlier this year was the fundamental
story and you know investors were
expecting this big profits recovery.
Small caps usually recover out of a
profits recession faster and harder than
large caps do. Um but we hadn't seen
that and the can kept getting kicked
down the road. So finally you know this
summer we were seeing evidence that
small caps were out of the profits
recession. Revisions were trending up.
Guidance was positive. Usually
corporates can be more conservative, but
they're actually guiding above consensus
more than below.
>> How much still is this coming because of
higher volumes and actually more
consumer activity? And how much is
coming from better balance sheets, more
efficiencies, better use of technology,
and all around a greater degree of
productivity?
>> Well, I think when you look at this
year, it's been kind of interesting. I
mean, performance year to date has been
this barbell of mega caps outperforming
and then micro caps outperforming. And
that's made it a really tough
environment for small cap active fund
managers um because they tend to tilt up
in in quality and up the cap spectrum
within their small cap universe. So very
few small cap managers are ahead of the
the benchmark year to date. And you know
one of the dynamics that we've seen this
year was elevated retail trading. Um
that's a dynamic we've seen postcoid but
uh you know much higher uh volume in
terms of what's been driven by retail
particularly in small caps. Um so I
think you know that's driven up the the
concentration within the Russell 2000 if
you didn't own those particular stocks.
Um that made it more challenging. Uh the
Russell will move to a twice a year
rebalancing next year rather than once a
year. So if the stock gets really big
and out of the small cap range it's
stuck around longer that will help to
mitigate that. Um but that's been
another factor. So I think the the the
retail trading the uh dynamics that we
saw with micro caps outperforming lower
quality stocks outperforming uh those
were happening even at parts of the year
when small caps themselves were lagging
large caps.
>> Joe how much of this is you know we're
more than 10 months into the Trump
administration. There was a ton of
policy uncertainty at the very start.
how much this is also driven by there
has been some more clarity especially
when it comes to where the
administration is going when it comes to
trade policy
>> right and I think that's you know one
another reason that that helps to be
more constructive on small caps next
year is you know we we saw small caps
get hit hard given the uncertainty
around tariffs they they do have the
thinnest margins of of the size segments
so you know higher input costs is a
bigger hit for these these companies and
so if we are in an environment
environment where effective tariff rates
are, you know, potentially lower if
there are some exemptions, some some
potentially easing of tariffs, um, and
just greater certainty. That that's a
help to small cap. Small caps tend to do
well when um, you know, there's there's
less volatility and uncertainty. Um, if
we see deregulation, that should be a
benefit. Um so so certainly a number of
factors that were were greater created
greater uncertainty for small caps early
in in 2025 but we could see um you know
more more positivity in 2026. M&A
activity has also picked up um and while
that doesn't tend to necessarily be a
driver for the small cap index overall
um it it has tended recently to to be a
factor that's caused targets to
outperform more than usual. It's an
environment where certain sectors within
small caps, healthc care for instance,
um has been one of the best performers
year to date within small caps and M&A
and and the sentiment around that has
helped.
>> Well, I wanted to ask you about that
this deregulatory push from this
administration. Are you expecting that
pickup in M&A to continue throughout
next year?
>> Yeah, I think we and our analysts in a
number of sectors definitely see the
case for continued M&A activity. We
we've seen the pickup this year. um it
started even before this year. Uh
healthcare has been a big driver. We've
seen more banks M&A activity this year.
Um so there's been several sectors where
we've we've seen a pickup. Um and you
know, we still haven't necessarily seen
a [clears throat] lot of bigger deals,
you know, mega cap or even really midcap
deals. Um but we have started to see
deals get done quicker. Um and you know,
in sectors like healthc care where there
was a lack of M&A for for quite some
time, this has helped sentiment. So, you
know, macro conditions need to remain
supportive. M&A is cyclical, but the
fact that small caps are still
relatively cheap versus large caps, um,
and the macro environment has remained
supportive, um, has certainly been a
positive factor.
>> So, just from an economic perspective,
how difficult is it to get a full read
on things given the fact that we're not
getting non-firm payrolls, we're not
getting a whole slew of other economic
data, and we have mixed reports from
different corporations. On one hand,
Walmart and Dollar General, yay. on the
other hand, not so much because these
tend to outperform in times of economic
distress,
>> right? Yeah. I mean, I think, you know,
we we've been in an environment where
there's been been a lack of data and,
you know, at Bank of America, we we have
a number of reads uh from from the BMA
Institute and on our internal data. But
I think, you know, overall, we we do
expect the Fed to cut next week and, you
know, we expect two more cuts next year.
So that that is still an environment
that should be supportive for for small
caps given the refinancing risk that
these companies face. They're more lever
than large caps. They have more
short-term and floating rate debt, more
debt coming due over the next several
years. Um but you know, I think some of
the macro factors that are going to be
most important for for small caps beyond
just the the overall condition of the
economy and the consumer is the
manufacturing backdrop. um you know,
we've struggled to see the ISM climb
back into expansionary territory and
that's an indicator that's you know,
highly correlated with small caps. And
then the credit backdrop where obviously
we we saw some signs of concern over the
last several months. Um you know, we're
we're watching that so far. Not
necessarily signs of broad-based credit
deterioration, but small caps are highly
sensitive to to the credit backdrops.
Those would be two key factors we're
we're watching as well. Joe Kerry Hall
of Bank of America. Thank you so much
for being with us. Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your bloom brief with
Vani Quinton. Vani
>> Lisa, [music] thank you. The European
Commission is finding Elon Musk's ex
nearly 140 million for violating the
EU's content moderation law. [music] It
claims the social network misled users
with its paid for blue tick symbol and
stonewalled researchers access to data.
It marks the first fine under the EU
digital services act. X has 90 days to
implement the changes or it could face
additional penalties.
The US Senate is seeking to ban Nvidia
from shipping advanced AI chips to
China. [music] They've now introduced
bipartisan legislation to prevent the
Trump administration from easing export
controls. It comes amid reports that the
Trump administration is considering
relaxing [music] restrictions on exports
to China. The bill urges maintaining
rather than loosening those export
controls.
Democratic senators Elizabeth Warren and
Jack Reid are reportedly demanding
tighter credit rulings for banks engaged
in [music] private credit. According to
the Wall Street Journal, the lawmakers
are citing the Black Rockck debt write
off as proof investors can suffer in
opaque markets. The senators are
pressing regulators for immediate action
and a mandatory private credit [music]
stress test. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Vonnie. I know that
everyone is shocked about that potential
proclamation for more regulation. Oh,
right. Elizabeth Warren, senator from
Massachusetts, asking for more
regulation in the banking sector. I
don't think anyone's surprised about
this 20 the day ends in Y. There's going
to be a letter,
>> which is a reason why I think a lot of
people are looking past that to what's
going on on the monetary and fiscal
side. Up next, pushing for lower rates.
>> We've got to get to a much lower rate.
Uh, if there's consensus around 25 basis
points, which it looks like there is,
then then I'll I'll take it.
>> Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan Asset
Management joining us next. Good
morning. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> trying to end with a new record high.
The Santa Claus rally gaining steam. and
the S&P 500 up uh throughout the morning
after three straight [music] uh sessions
of gains. The Russell 2000 has been
leading the charge, less so today, up to
tens of a percent on S&P futures. You
also are seeing a lift to bond yields. A
question of what the influence of the
Fed will be over the longer end. 10-year
yields now almost at 411. And check out
shares in pre-market trading of
Southwest. Southwest cutting its
operating profit for the full year to
500 million. Previously they had said
600 to 700 million. The expectation
[music] here that some of their
profitability crimped by the government
shutdown. They are seeing bookings
return to normal. Those shares lower by
2.2 uh% in pre-market trade. I'm just
curious if this is a broader trend too
whether this really does speak to any
kind of consumer push back or if it is
government shutdown related.
>> Well the government shutdown was the
longest in history more [music] than 40
days and at the same time you cannot
make up that demand. That's it. It is
over. So, they're citing this as being
potentially [music] this one-off hit. On
top of that, also higher fuel prices.
Maybe jet fuel has [music] been higher
for some of these airlines. Um, they say
that bookings are back to normal, so
potentially for the airlines, smooth
sailing for 2026. But you can't make up
the fact that people were just stuck not
traveling because a number of [music]
individuals were not getting paid. You
heard the same kind of thing from Delta.
This just adds to the sort of muddied
waters [music] behind the backdrop of
the Federal Reserve under surveillance
this morning pushing for lower rates.
we've got to get to a much lower rate.
[music] Uh if there's consensus around
25 basis points, which it looks like
there is, then then I'll I'll take it.
>> And if you were [music] Fed chair, would
you want to keep doing that how many
times in the beginning of the year?
>> You know, as as [music] Fed chair, what
your job is is to look at the data, see
how it's going, and make sure that
you're, you know, keeping unemployment
low and inflation low and and depending
on how the data move that you move
interest rates in response to it.
>> Here's the latest. NEC Director Kevin
Hasset reiterating his call for lower
rates as Wall Street voices concern over
his potential nomination as the next Fed
chair. Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan Asset
Management, writing the market has been
incorrectly pricing rate cuts in
December and January as interchangeable
rather than cumulative. Kelsey joins us
now. Kelsey, you're right. We've
actually seen a decline in the
probability of a January Fed rate cut as
people have increased the probability of
one next week. Why do you think this is
wrong? Yeah. So, what we've been seeing
is the pricing for a December rate cut
and a January rate cut over the last
month have been negatively correlated.
So, when December came down before the
last payrolls report, you saw January go
up. So, people were generally thinking
these are interchangeable. Now, the
reason that I am skeptical about that,
there's a few. One is the continued
deterioration in the labor market data,
which to us signals that the Fed is
likely to deliver not just the December
rate cut, but also one in January. But
more importantly, just from a market
probability perspective,
I think that ahead of the jobs report on
December 16th, which coincidentally
comes after the Fed's decision, um that
you should be pricing in a probability
for January that's really closer to
5050. So if we're coming out of the
December FOMC meeting and we get this
hawkish cut that that most of the
consensus at least expects and January
probabilities are still as low as they
are today below 30%. I think that's
actually a decent riskreward heading
into the October November combined
payrolls print where I think you're
probably more likely than not going to
see more softness in the data.
>> So why do you say that? Yesterday we got
initial jobless claims. We haven't
mentioned it once this morning. People
seem to have just rejected it. Came in
at the lowest level that we've seen
going back to 2022, I believe only once
before in history. It's been this low
since uh the middle of the century, last
century. So, I'm just How do you square
that with ongoing weakness that you
think will justify further rate cuts?
>> I don't deny that it is a peculiar
situation um and the data is not clear
completely and I don't know if it will
ever be clear completely. But here's
what I would say in terms of initial
jobless claims. We broke below 200,000.
It was during the Thanksgiving week.
There are sometimes quirks around that.
But at the same time, we did get the
challenger job cuts. And if you look at
the cumulative amount of job cut
announcements this year relative to
prior years, we've actually seen the
most layoff announcements in that
challenger survey since 2009.
So, it's unusual actually over time to
see that big of a disconnect between
initial jobless claims and the
challenger layoff series. Now, there
could be reasons for it. It's
announcements, right? Challenger is
announcements, not things that actually
happen. Um, so there could be some of a
timing mismatch. But I think more
broadly when you look at the mosaic of
data, it's still telling you that the
risk of a reaceleration in the labor
market, a risk of uh a wage price
spiral, which is the most important
thing for the Fed in terms of being able
to maintain an easing bias. Those are
all still fairly low.
>> When it comes to the December 16th
non-farm payrolls report, what is the
bar of how low it needs to be for the
Fed to cut in January in your mind?
Well, I look at things like the ADP and
Revelio data, which we have through um
October and November already, and
they're flagging uh the risk of
something closer to zero. So, if I think
about it, we have the September NFP job
growth on average for the last six month
in that survey is around 60,000. Then
you compare that to where the three and
six-month moving averages for job growth
are through November for Rellio and ADP
and those are closer to zero. You know,
you look at the last six ADP prints,
four out of the six of them have been
negative. So, I'm not necessarily
calling for a negative print. I am
calling for something that is uh softer,
something that biases the unemployment
rate slightly higher. Uh you know, we
were nearly there in the last report at
4.4. 44 and the unemployment rate that
could round up. Um and again this is
still at least from the market's
perspective a low higher low fire uh
subtrend growth environment not a
recessionary environment but one where
the labor market is st uh squishy enough
um you know that the Fed has ample
justification to maintain the easing
bias and gradually cut a few more times.
>> I just have about 30 seconds left.
Michael Hartnett saying that if the Fed
is overly dovish that will lead to a
rise in long end yields. It sounds like
you disagree. Is that correct?
>> It depends obviously on the mix of data.
Um I think the market would be surprised
by an overly dovish message ahead of key
data points and so there is a bit of a
sequencing sequencing thing here. Um I
think the way that the Fed should
approach it is to have more of a neutral
bias. Um, I think that makes sense given
that you know that just 6 days later or
5 days later you're going to have a lot
more information than you did before.
>> Kelsey Barrow, thank you so much for
being with us. Kelsey Barrow of JP
Morgan Asset Management and AMH is
shaking her head.
>> It doesn't need to be this way. Just
move the meeting. [laughter] Just
>> going to keep her lobbying. Just move
the meeting.
>> The meeting it's it's circumstances that
you couldn't predict. Have all the data
going into the next Fed meeting.
>> Yeah. And the second we get the data,
people are going to say, "How clean is
it? And can we actually read that much
into it?" So we will have these debates
on an ongoing level. Coming up next, we
will continue that. Kate Moore of City
Wealth will be joining us. Plus, David
Steinberg of Zeta Global, Abby Yodar of
JP Morgan Private Bank as we look ahead
to a really big week. The Fed has to
decide amid a der of economic data. We
should be getting non-farm payrolls.
Instead, we're getting un University of
Michigan sentiment. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Everybody's talking about this K-shaped
economy and I think it's real.
>> It's been the tale of two consumers.
This is a structural problem.
>> The recovery isn't really in sight.
There are a number of [music] upside
risks as we look out to the end of the
year and turn the calendar page into
2026. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with [music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks inching back to
record highs with optimism fueled by
ongoing resilience among US consumers.
[music]
All eyes now turning to next week's Fed
rate decision. A potential Fed share
Kevin Hasset says [music] he does
support a 25 basis point rate cut. Some
dated inflation data coming up later
today. We are getting a mixed read on
the US consumer. On one hand, we've got
the likes of Walmart and Dollar General
that are doing really well. Amarie, on
the other hand, you've got Southwest
coming out and actually downgrading the
earnings forecast [music] for the year.
So, Southwest though could potentially
be linked to what happened with the US
government shutdown, longest in history.
They're saying that part of this is
because of that. Maybe they're leaning
heavily on that, but you can't make up
that lost [music] demand. That's it.
People didn't fly. A lot of Southwest
individuals uh linked to potentially
federal workers flying around the
country. also individuals that have jobs
because of the federal government. Um
they're contractors too. So potentially
that's part of it. And then when it
comes [music] to Dollar General, Dollar
Tree, Walmart, is it a sign that the
economy is actually not doing well
because maybe those higher income
spenders are actually looking for deals
on the lower end?
>> Right now, what we're seeing is people
pricing [music] in their optimism,
particularly with the Russell 2000
hitting another all-time high yesterday.
notable to see the gain so far since the
end of April in the Russell [music] 2000
up 30%. So the real issue is is this
because the Fed is expected [music] to
cut rates is because of actual strength
or is this because a lot of these
companies are getting better at becoming
efficient, cutting jobs, using
technology and actually doesn't speak
[music] to an overall economic boom.
Well, this year they've had to learn to
do that. They were given a tremendous
amount of uncertainty with [music] the
global trading landscape as well with
the Trump administration. and what
they've been able to do is really
weather that storm in terms of passing
on some of those costs but not all of
them and being able to be as efficient
[music] as possible.
>> We are getting some breaking news
currently. Netflix uh is going to buy
Warner Brothers. This just crossing this
had been something that we were talking
about throughout the morning. Netflix is
planning to buy Warner Brothers for an
enterprise value of $82.7 [music]
billion. the cash and stock transaction
valued at $27.75
per uh Warner Brothers shares. You are
seeing shares [music] slightly lower in
pre-market trading of Netflix down about
fluctuating here but down about a half a
percent uh one way or another. This
comes after a lot of rumored speculation
including a breakup [music] fee uh that
Netflix would pay uh to Warner Brothers
of $5 billion. But it comes after so
much drama around these names. So much
drama because remember this was a
bidding war. Netflix [music] was really
the dark horse. Everyone thought it was
going to be paramount, especially given
David Ellison's link to the Trump
administration. He was in Washington DC
this week trying to lobby them. There is
concern about the regulatory approval
when it comes to Netflix [music] and the
antirust concerns. And you have a number
of uh congressmen [music] in California
also speaking about this. You have a
letter to Variety from some [music] film
directors that they say prominent film
directors are part of this letter
talking [music] about the potential
antitrust issues. So that $5 billion
breakup fee seems to be what put this
over the edge. I am surprised though
[music] how quickly just last night we
broke that they entered these exclusive
negotiations and today they got the deal
done. We'll be uh developing the story
as we learn more throughout the morning.
Right now futures higher as we look to
potentially clinch a fourth straight day
of gains on the S&P [music] 500. Uh
meanwhile you are seeing the
outperformance from NASDAQ to ten of a
percent gain on the S&P yields
marginally higher to 411 [music]
and you are seeing just that rangebound
dollar weakening trend that has kind of
hit a stall speed in the past couple of
sessions. Coming up this hour, Kate
Moore of City Wealth [music] as
investors eye that fourth straight day
of gains. David Steinberg of Zeta Global
with a new view of the consumer this
holiday season. And Abby Yodar of JP
Morgan Private Bank on whether big AI
bets are cashing in. And we begin this
hour with stocks inching higher ahead of
a long delayed inflation uh information
report. Kate Moore of City Wealth
writing, "We remain fully invested in
equities on this nominal growth backdrop
and prefer gold over long and duration
as a hedge to risk given the upward
pressure on rates." Kate, I am so
pleased to say, joins us now for more.
Kate, good morning. Thank you for being
with us.
>> Morning.
>> So, this has been a market that you've
been cautious about for a lot of this
year. you still see reasons that maybe
the everything rally can't continue
forever, but the tone has shifted. Why?
Okay, so I it's not that I've been
cautious, it's that we didn't
aggressively add to risk because we
prefer to take our exposure in large
caps. Uh and I continued to even after
seeing some of the small cap rally. Um I
think most of that and you kind of let
into this a moment ago has been around
rate cut expectations and relative to
some others, we don't think the Fed
should be cutting rates at every meeting
from now until next June. I know some
people are hoping for that and some
pricing that in and we think small
companies desperately need that in order
to really sustain a rally and to have
better earnings and fundamentals. So, we
prefer to take our risk in the large
capsu uh space. We've done quite well
there, but it's not that we've been out
of the equity market or been underweight
in any way, shape, or form. We just want
to be where the earnings are and where
the free cash is and where we have
visibility and that served us well
really well this year. So what you're
saying is it sounds like you don't buy
that there is this truly durable
rotation into small caps and to expand
out of just where the leadership has
been. Is that correct?
>> Yeah, I want to and I know so many
people have written their year- ahead
report saying once again same thing they
did at this time last year. Uh next year
is going to be a year of broadening.
It's going to be year of broadening in
sectors. It's going to be year of
broadening in terms of regions. And I'm
not a buyer of that today this first
week in December. And let me explain why
because we uh we are kind of later in
the cycle. Um we are at a point where
you can pick and choose whatever
economic data you want to to fit the
narrative you want to tell about the
overall macro and what policy might do
to uh respond to that macro. And I think
you have to be very anchored to
fundamentals and where we have
visibility into fundamentals where we
can see earnings uh where we know that
companies have the ability to weather
any kind of um you know sort of you know
storm in the economy whether that's a
bit of inflation spike or a slightly
weaker labor market or policy headwind.
That's where we want to be anchored and
I think many investors will as well. You
don't just rotate for the sake of
rotation. You just don't buy the lagards
for the sake of it. In fact, we have
done a bunch of quantitative studies to
show that when you employ that strategy,
particularly after a full year
performance of kind of tech and comms,
etc. Um, you don't perform as well. Some
of these things that are doing well
deserve it and we don't rotate for the
sake of rotating.
>> But isn't the table set this time around
better than it was last year in the
sense that the Fed looks likely to
remain accommodative?
>> Yeah.
>> You have deregulation push from this
administration and the trade policy
uncertainty is now behind us.
>> Well, so let me say this. uh we are
really constructive on the deregulatory
side and it's a reason we've been
talking about the opportunity in banks.
I realize I do work in a bank but I also
can be objective um and my job is to
make my clients money in all parts of
the cycle and in all sectors. So yeah, I
see the deregul regulatory side as a a
good tailwind um for parts of the market
and for the economy. On the trade side,
much of the uncertainty is behind us but
not all. And I like to say we were past
peak tariff shock, but we are still kind
of working through what's going to
happen with the AIPA tariffs, which
tariffs are going to be enduring, what
will trade look like. Look, I'll be
honest. I'm encouraged when the
administration is pulling back or
rolling back some of the tariffs they
employed. I think that's I'd like to see
a more moderate inflation environment,
but we know that higher prices are still
filtering into the costs and to the end
prices that uh companies are charging
consumers. So, I don't think we're past
the concern. I think people are tired of
talking about it and want it to go away.
Um, but inflation, I think, is spicier
than many are pricing in the market.
That's a core view of mine.
>> Lisa and I have been talking about all
week what the signal should be from the
dollar stores and Walmart. Is it a good
signal in the economy and the consumer
or is it actually a negative one?
>> I think it is a cautious signal. I think
I think we are getting consumers who are
continuing to spend. we like this, but
they're continuing to spend in a way
that is conscious of, you know, u brand.
It's conscious of value, and it's
conscious of like, you know, where the
best deals are. We all know how this
went kind of over Black Friday and the
following weekend. Consumers are, if
they're in the big box stores, they're
using their phones to price check at the
same time. And we saw more people
shopping online than in the stores than
we have historically. Continued that to
see that trend. And that's largely
because people are comparison pricing on
shop on on um prices. And I think that's
a smart thing to do. But they are not
stopping spending. But we do need to be
rec recognize that we are at this later
part of the cycle that consumers are a
bit fatigued. This has been a tough
year. They don't feel uh many things are
affordable from the regular basket of
goods to housing etc. And we need to
listen to that and the administration
needs to listen to that as well.
>> So you talk about how you are somewhat
looking at the large caps to continue to
outperform. you're not screamingly
optimistic about the US economy at the
same time not seeing long duration as a
hedge. I wonder how much this has to do
with the glut of supply not only coming
from the treasury market but also from
the corporate bond space as it helps to
finance a lot of the AI tech boom that
we're seeing. Yeah. So we've seen some
sort an uptick in some of the financing
obviously for AI projects and AI
adjacent projects and infrastructure but
it's not setting off any alarm bells for
us. Uh frankly on the duration side, the
thing that we're most concerned about is
that we are uh exhibiting very little
fiscal discipline in the US government.
That is not a political statement that's
true across both Republican and
Democratic administrations and that the
rest of the world is kind of waking up
to this and that this is not a great
picture over the medium-term. Frankly,
if we think inflation is going to be a
little spicier and we think that that
we're likely to get no fiscal discipline
in 2026, you know, the likelihood that
bond yields stay where they are, move a
little bit higher, that we're not going
to get a lot of juice, um, you know, I
think is quite high. We prefer to hedge
our long equity uh, position with more
gold at this point.
>> Well, I wonder where credit fits in with
this. And I'm saying this after Warner
Brothers and Netflix, their tie-up has
been confirmed this morning. That deal
is expected to close in 12 to 18 months.
Netflix has been talking about using a
lot of cash as well as buying shares.
That is code for debt markets that are
going to be financing this since they
don't have that cash on their balance
sheets. At what point do you think that
the credit market is going to experience
some fatigue with the massive issuance
that's seen not only from AI but from
some of the other M&A activity that's
come down the pipe? Yeah, I mean this is
an excellent question and actually
something we've been spending a lot of
time on our research side on this week
because we're asking ourselves, you
know, how much juice is there left in
the credit market. We know spreads on
the IG and the high yield side are close
to the 15-year tights. Um there's it's
great if you're a company that's
issuing. It's not so great if you're
looking for like a great total return
from that asset class. And as asset
allocators, that's what we're really
examining. So um while I'm not calling
for any significant spike in defaults,
we have to ask ourselves relative to
equities, can we get the returns that we
need on a riskadjusted basis uh from
credit at this point and we're less
convinced um and we've been a little bit
underweight relative to our index. So if
you're underweight credit but overweight
equity but overweight equities and
you're underweight long duration
>> and balancing out with gold
>> and balancing out with gold, this is a
new portfolio allocation. This looks
like a different kind of model than you
know pre- pandemic the 6040 type of
allocation.
>> It absolutely is and a big project we're
also undergoing is really kind of
rethinking how we construct portfolios
in general for all of our clients. They
need to be outcomesbased and not just
static based on a 60/40 benchmark. You
know what part of the portfolio needs to
be generating growth income and
uncorrelated returns and then where do
the traditional asset classes and factor
exposures fit into that? So, uh, this is
a huge project for us and we are really,
really excited about where we'll take
it.
>> Kate Moore, you're going to be sticking
with us. Kate Moore of City Wealth here
in New York as we do see this deal.
Netflix uh, planning to buy Warner
Brothers for $27.75
per share in cash and stock. We'll build
on that in the upcoming minutes and
hours. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your Bloomberg brief with the Bonnie
Quinn. Vonnie. Yeah. Well, just some
more details on that. They didn't get to
the $30 mark, Lisa. As you've said,
Netflix acquiring Warner Brothers,
including its film and TV studios.
[music] The deal will be a cash and
stock transaction valued at 2775 per
share of Warner Brothers Discovery. Now,
the total enterprise value approximately
82.7 billion. And that transaction
expected to close after the separation
of Discovery Global into a new publicly
traded [music] company.
The Supreme Court clearing Texas to use
a new Republican drawn congressional map
for next year's election. The decision
reversing a lower court ruling
bolstering GOP hopes of picking up as
many as five new House seats in the
[music] state. Three Liberal justices
dissented, saying the majority should
have respected the lower court's ruling.
FIFA is conducting the men's World Cup
draw at the Kennedy Center in Washington
today. The draw determines which
opponents all 48 teams will eventually
face in the initial group stage. [music]
The ceremonies kick off at noon.
President Trump is hosting the
festivities with performances from
Andrea Buchelli and the village people.
The World Cup starts next June with
matches in Canada, Mexico, and the
United States. And that's your Bloomberg
brief. Lisa,
>> what is it? Thank you so much, Bonnie.
What is it when I said the village
people? When Vonnie said the village
people just laughter around the table.
>> Oh, because it's a little bit
unconventional, right? You have the
village people YMCA coming out.
>> It was the contrast for me, you know.
Aaron Judge will also be there.
>> Will he also be singing? I don't think
so.
>> Up next, we're not talking about that.
All about affordability.
>> My administration and our partners in
Congress will continue our work to lower
the cost of living and make America
affordable again.
>> Affordability, they call it was a conj
job by the by the Democrats. We did a
great job on groceries and
affordability. The only problem is the
fake news.
>> Bloomberg's Lauren Dazinski joins us up
next from [music] New York. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
trying to build on three consecutive
days of gains. Equity futures higher in
pre-market trading led by actually the
NASDAQ which had been lagging behind for
the previous few sessions up about 210
of a percent on the S&P rangebound on
the Euro dollar cross. We had seen some
dollar weakening [music] that had
reversed yesterday. Uh yields marginally
higher. Watch this name. You [music] can
see Netflix shares lower in pre-market
trading after announcing that they were
going to buy Warner Brothers for $83
[music] billion. It is a stock and cash
transaction raising questions about how
much debt they're going to have to
issue. We'll get into that in just a
bit. But [music] this deal seeming to
culminate. Warner Brothers shares still
halted after that news dropped. under
surveillance this morning all about
affordability.
>> My administration and our partners in
Congress will continue our work to lower
the cost of living and make America
affordable again. Affordability, they
call it, was a conj job by the by the
Democrats. We did a great job on
groceries and affordability. The only
problem is the fake news. There's this
fake narrative that the Democrats talk
about affordability. They just say the
word. It doesn't mean anything to
anybody. Just about everything is down.
You know, this whole thing is they use
the word affordability. It's a Democrat
hoax.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
traveling to Pennsylvania on Tuesday to
promote his economic agenda as more
polls show affordability is the dominant
concern for Americans. Bloomberg's
Lauren Dazinski joins us now for more.
Lauren, can you sort of square the
circle for us? On one hand, the rhetoric
coming from the White House is this is a
hoax. on the other hand, the actions
really speaking to the concerns making
their way through polls about
affordability.
>> Certainly, President Trump is going to
Pennsylvania to pitch this affordability
argument. I think that the president
certainly I think it stands to be seen
what argument specifically he does make.
If he tells those voters in Pennsylvania
that this is all a hoax and prices are
down, I don't think that that's going to
resonate all that well. At the end of
the day, data is showing that Americans
are concerned with how expensive the
cost of living has gotten in this
country. And the idea that this is
simply Joe Biden's problem or this is a
hoax, this is Democrats coming after it,
while it is a familiar refrain for this
president, it's not necessarily
something that is going to change the
reality for Americans in that it's just
more expensive to buy groceries.
>> Lauren Dazinski of Bloomberg, thank you
so much. Which is the reason why I think
a lot of people in markets right now,
Emory, have been looking to some sort of
stimulus early next year that maybe the
rhetoric is one thing, but the actions
are going to be quite different.
>> Well, there's really going to be a
fiscal impulse when it comes to one big
beautiful bill, some tax rebates, but
then you have the administration teasing
this idea of $2,000 checks. Now, the
president continues to talk about it
even though we've seen the Treasury
Secretary sort of back off and say
potentially something we need to look
at. This needs congressional approval.
The president can't just come out and
decide to write these checks. Also, we
need to know what goes on with AIPA
before you start writing out dividend
checks from the tariff revenue that
these tariffs have brought in. Are they
even legal?
>> Yeah. And we have to wait until bond
vigilantes possibly uh wake up. Kate
Moore of City Wealth is still with us.
And Kate, I'd love your take on how you
price in or game out any kind of fiscal
support as you do see this affordability
issue continuing to gain ground not just
with Republicans but also the Democratic
wing of the party. Yeah, look, I think
this is a major major issue for most
consumers and one thing we've been
anchored to and of course we know we
haven't gotten uh more recent inflation
data from the government, but in the
last print for CPI, more than a third of
the components are running at a 5%
annualized rate. And so there may be
some things that are depressing um
overall headline CPI and it could be
rents and it could be like one-time
purchases like used cars, etc. But we
know that the average consumer is going
to the store and feeling like it's
costing more to get the same basket of
goods than it did a year ago. And that
to the point we were talking about the
retailers, they're being um more
choiceful. They're picking picky they're
being pickier about what they're uh
buying and they are really searching for
value across online retailers and stuff
as well. That's not behavior that's
consistent with, hey, everything feels
affordable to me right now. And I do
think it's going to influence a lot of
the discussion around the midterms next
year as well as some of the policy
decisions from this administration going
into that voting. So, uh, you know,
Trump, President Trump may have said
it's not a concern for him. I would
suggest given some roll back on some
specific tariffs, uh, he and his team
are aware that it is an issue for many
voters,
>> especially the fact that he's going to
Pennsylvania next week. He understands
this is an issue. There's this meme
circulating about the $2,000 checks. You
have electrical power strip and you just
plug it in itself. How circular is this
when you basically have tariff revenue
and then giving that revenue back? Isn't
it just giving basically a tax credit
back to the American people? And the
question I always have, you know,
because the administration has suggested
if they were to do something like this,
there would be a taring system that
certain consumers wouldn't qualify and
others would. But if you have a higher
propensity to consume with say the
lowest quintile of household income and
the highest, you know, are spending
quite a lot and they're feeling that
tariff pain, you know, who gets what and
when and how would that be funded? It
feels very challenging.
>> If it does only go to the lower income
cohort, though, does that mean it could
potentially put a lid on stoking
inflation the way we saw some inflation
induced with under the Biden
administration with the checks?
>> I mean, it's a good question. And I
think I I haven't worked out the math
there of what the real impact would be.
But I do think that even if we roll
back, which I know we've talked about,
um, and even if you know people feel
temporary relief from some of the things
that they purchase on a daily basis, we
the tariffs are a tool this
administration feels are very important
for trade partners and for, you know,
allies and and adversaries alike. So, I
don't think we should expect tariffs to
come off of the policy playbook for this
administration and that they will
continue to pursue more specific
sectoral tariffs that will be more
enduring and frankly we've, as we've
seen in the past, have endured through
multiple different administrations and
different political uh leadership. So,
those things are stickier and will lead
to prices. I can't tell you exactly what
they're going to be at this point
because we've heard many different
stories, but um I think tariffs are an
important tool that are not going away.
This policy backdrop is the reason why a
lot of people are really bullish on
equities. Yeah. And I hear that again
and again because ultimately potentially
it could be inflationary regardless of
what happens if you're giving more cash
to consumers. Also, there are these
Trump savings accounts that are gaining
steam the idea of having every child in
the United States that is eligible to
have some sort of money set aside to go
into equity markets or broad markets.
How are you sort of pricing that in in
terms of the outperformance of the
equity asset class as a whole which
tends to do better in more inflationary
times? Yeah, I mean those are definitely
supports for the equity market into
2026. But I would also note we have a
very important driver which is what's
happening in terms of capital
expenditure not just in the AI space but
frankly in a lot of adjacent spaces um
and the overall kind of spending uh that
businesses are doing to be competitive
in this new and changing landscape. All
of that data that we've received more
recently both from companies as well as
things that are aggregated are
suggesting that that spending goes full
steam ahead into 2026. So combined with
some of these policy, you know, moves to
get people invested in the market, uh
the corporate side, I think is really
going to drive what what will be a solid
uh economy in 26.
>> Yeah. And I believe that your bank, City
Group, just came out with an increase in
their forecast for copper. I imagine
copper very much gaining steam with all
of the metals in general on the heels of
that. We've been looking very closely at
resources not just on the research side
but also [clears throat] in the you know
city wealth side as well as
beneficiaries frankly of this increased
uh capital expenditure and especially
materials that do very well in an
environment where we're building these
data centers. Um so we see a lot of
opportunity to actually add to resources
not just the tech companies as a way to
play this theme.
>> Kate Moore wonderful to see you. Thank
you so much for spending this morning
with us. Kate Moore of City Wealth here
in New York. Coming up the next hour,
David Steinberg of Zeta Global with a
fresh read on the US consumer. Plus,
Yahara Anend with your morning movers.
Uh shares of Southwest Airlines lower
after cutting its outlook. Amory, I'm
watching uh Netflix shares right now and
Warner Brothers. Warner Brothers
actually uh restarted trade and is
almost flat in pre-market activity.
Seems like a big deal that a lot of
people have been waiting for. A lot of
big deal. A lot of people have been
waiting for this. It's been a bidding
war. And for Netflix, this deal is the
biggest ever they've taken on in scope.
Shares are down. The next big hurdle is
going to be the regulatory scrutiny this
deal is going to come under.
>> Yeah. Especially given the fact there's
a real focus on media and [music] the
potential groundwork for other big
consolidation. Those shares lower by
2.7%.
Netflix [music] futures down as they do
pledge to buy Warner Brothers for $83
billion. From New York, this is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> futures inflecting higher as we close
out look to close out the last week of
the first week uh last day of the first
week of December. I'll get it out. It is
a long week even though it is just the
first one of the last month of the year.
We're looking at a 2,000% gain on the
S&P. NASDAQ futures leading the charge
up 3/10en [music] of a percent and the
Russell 2000 which hit an all-time high
yesterday is up 30% since April at the
April 30th. [music] Now those shares
futures lower by about a tenth of a
percent. When you take a look at twos,
tens, and 30s 30-year bond yields rising
to [music] the highest level going back
to September 25th, 4.78% [music]
rounded up. You're seeing two basis
point increase there. similar move on
the tenure squarely through 411 with the
real question around duration given the
fact that the Fed will probably cut
rates [music] given the fact that some
of the economic and corporate data has
been better two hours away from the cash
open let's take a look at some of those
corporate stories an end has them for
usher [music] hi Lisa it is a big shift
in the media landscape Netflix acquiring
Warner Brothers Discovery studio and
streaming businesses in an $83 billion
deal ending a saga that has been months
in the making. The deal pushes Netflix
[music] deep into uh traditional
Hollywood, overseeing a century old
studio and a theatrical business that
Netflix has never really embraced. What
also could be weighing on Netflix
[music] stock this morning, which is
down 1%, is that $5 billion breakup fee
if [music] regulators reject the deal.
Meanwhile, we are seeing Southwest
Airlines shares falling nearly [music]
1% in the pre-market, pairing earlier
losses after the airline cut its profit
outlook for the year. The carrier
[music] now expects operating profit of
$500 million, down from as much as $800
million, blaming the hit [music] on
higher fuel costs and that recent
government shutdown. It says that
upended travel and that that is why
Southwest take is taking a bigger hit
since it [music] is a mostly domestic
airline. And we end on SoFi shares. They
are falling nearly seven and a half
percent in the [music] pre-market after
announcing a one and a half billion
dollar share sale which of course is a
diluting event. But it follows a massive
rally with SoFi's [music]
market cap nearly doubling this year. So
it is striking while the iron is hot
[music] planning to use those fresh
funds to fund future future growth. and
analysts here at BI say [music] that
this could mean that uh we wouldn't be
surprised to see uh SoFi uh [music]
pursue some M&A because of this move.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yhira, on our radar
this [music] morning, NAC director Kevin
Hasset saying the Federal Reserve should
cut interest rates at its meeting next
week.
>> We've got to get to a much lower rate.
Uh if there's consensus around 25 basis
points, which it looks like there is,
then then I'll I'll take it. President
Trump is planning to announce his pick
to lead the Fed early in the new new
year and Hassid is considered a frontr
runner for the nomination. But still,
Emry, a lot of questions given the fact
that it's dragged on for so long. It's
dragged on and the president said this
week a potential Fed chair is in the
room. Didn't really go out and
enthusiastically talk about how he has
made his decision on Kevin Hassid
specifically. I know he's winning in the
betting markets, but the timeline just
keeps getting pushed back. So, and he's
known potentially to change his mind.
So, it's not a done deal just yet.
>> And it really is this question of
markets. How much of a concern is this?
On one hand, you've gotten rumors and
stories about push back from members of
the Treasury buying market. On the other
hand, uh one thing Steve Inglador of
Sander Charter points out this morning,
you're not seeing those inflation
worries perking up in break even rates
or other kind of market-based
expectations, right? Which Kevin Hasset
then went on news and said, "Look, the
market reacted fairly to the idea the
president has maybe not so much picked
me. he wasn't trying to boost his own
ego, but the idea that he's coming down
to a decision. I do think it is
interesting that the Treasury is trying
to solicit input from bond investors and
if bond investors are telling them,
yeah, that Financial Times article, one
comment was we don't want a Liz trust
moment. We won't we don't want to get
trust that might give them pause and
obviously the Treasury Secretary is
going to have to be honest with the
president in terms of what market
participants are saying about the
individual who's right now the front
runner. Yeah, Scott Besson's been very
clear that the market ultimately does
hold the vote. Right now, we're also
watching US trade representative Jameson
Greer saying the US trade relationship
with China needs to be stable, more
balanced, and potentially smaller. Greer
adding a 25% reduction in trade with
Beijing would be a move in the quote
right direction. Also talking about how
uh negotiations and discussions are
ongoing on a daily basis. So, this isn't
exactly something uh that is going
quietly. We had a day taunt between Xi
Jinping and President Trump when they
met in South Korea. But the trade
negotiations continue and that dialogue
continues and there's been reports in
the Financial Times that this
administration is so focused to making
sure that trade maintains on a good
track with China because the United
States need those rare earths that
they're actually starting to potentially
look at ways maybe they could wait it
out when it comes to other issues they
have with China like sanctions, when it
comes to national security space.
>> Yeah. Focus on natural resources very
much front and center. Copper extending
a record-breaking run after a bullish
price outlook from city. Analysts
expecting copper to rally to $13,000 by
the second quarter. The AI buildout is
fueling demand for the metal and stoking
fears of a shortage. Let's turn back to
that breaking news from earlier this
hour. Netflix planning to acquire Warner
Brothers Discovery in a massive cash and
stock deal valued at nearly $83 billion
representing $27.75
per share. Joining us now for more is
Githa Ranganathan of Bloomberg
Intelligence. Githa, how surprised are
you that this deal was announced so
suddenly after so much uh drama over the
past few months?
>> Yeah, we're actually very very
surprised, Lisa. We never saw Netflix
really as a front runner. I mean, when
we first heard the news about Netflix
kind of kicking the tires, we just
thought it was more of like an exercise
them just kind of looking at all of the
assets. So, this really comes at a as a
surprise to us because we never I don't
think anybody in the on the street or in
the market actually thought that this
was an existential deal for for Netflix.
It it very much is the case for
Paramount Sky Dance and Comcast. I mean,
now those are two subscale streaming
platforms. I think the street was very
much looking at that as as as a
must-have. uh you know Warner Brothers
for for Netflix not so much. So
definitely a huge surprise.
>> So why did Warner Brothers in the end go
with Netflix?
>> So I think there are a couple of
different things here. I think one is
just the the price uh is something that
they were looking for. I don't think
Paramount was willing to pay more than
about $26 for the entire company. Uh
remember Warner Brothers here is selling
two different uh parts of the company.
So there is the global networks business
which is you know TV networks uh CNN and
all of that. Uh and then you have the
streaming and the studio business which
is of course the far more valuable part
of the business. Uh and Netflix of
course really kind of uh paying up
almost $28 a share. So uh we know that
David Zazlav the CEO of Warner was
looking for something close to about $30
for per share for the entire company. Uh
remember this is a stock that was
trading at $12 just a few months ago. So
has been a huge huge run up and I think
that this probably was the best deal for
shareholders and that's what Zazlav said
he was going to do. Ga, do you think
that this is going to be the best deal
for regulators? Do you think they're
going to sign off?
>> Yeah, it's going this is really a huge
regulatory gamble. Uh, Lisa, I mean, you
kind of look at Netflix, they already
are the dominant streaming platform, 320
million subscribers globally, that's the
number one streaming service. HBO Max
also pretty massive uh with close to
about 130 million. So, you combine the
number one number three streaming
services across the world, huge
regulatory red flags. So, it's going to
be tough. There is a $5 billion breakup
fee that kind of reflects that
uncertainty. Uh we'll have to see what
are the concessions that that uh Netflix
is willing to give up.
>> Ether Rangathan, thank you so much for
being with us. Hopefully, we'll catch up
with you again soon as we parse through
the details. Turning to the broader
economy, dated inflation data coming up
as we get a mixed read on the consumer.
A new report by Zeta Global, an AI
powered marketing cloud, finds quote,
"Holiday related activity continues to
support consumer sentiment, though
growth appeared to be driven more by
higher prices than rising volumes."
David Steinberg, CEO and chair of Zeta
Global, joins us now. David, this is the
ultimate question. How much of what
we're seeing that looks like strong
sales really is strong inflation driving
pretty tepid sales? I
>> I think it's a combination of both. I
mean, we're really seeing prices
continue to go up uh in certain
categories. They they are going down in
in some like gas, but what we're seeing
is really the economy is being driven by
nondiscretionary and holiday purchasing
right now,
>> which is the reason why I think people
are looking at some of these mergers and
some of these other activities in the
market. The dominance of say the
Walmarts, the dominance of the streaming
services that can jack up prices and
some of your streaming service. I mean,
how much is that the gameplay right now
that there isn't that much growth, per
se, organically, but some of the returns
that we're seeing from corporations in
the retail space have benefited from
consolidating market share and actually
doing better efficiencies.
>> I mean, there's no question efficiencies
are getting done. I mean, we we just had
the holiday weekend. We saw our platform
utilization go up 153% over 5 days and
AI was able to drop our clients cost by
87%.
That's not just us. We're seeing that
across the board through mergers. And
when you look at Netflix buying that
type of a platform, I think they're
looking for additional scale in a world
where scale really is driving.
>> When you say dropping their cost by 87%.
What type of cost are we talking about,
David?
>> We're talking about the internal cost of
managing their marketing and business
intelligence. So getting rid of data
scientists, getting rid of people who
are focused on doing the activation of
marketing and quite frankly lowering the
marketing cost by hyperargeting the
marketing in in a world like today where
it's really a tale of two cities where
you've got the top 10% of people in the
United States driving the vast majority
of economic growth. You've got to be
able to target them on a hyper basis.
And and once again, I think that's why
you see the Walmarts, uh, you see
Netflix and other organizations are
winning in the marketplace.
>> David, what you're saying is basically
layoffs then.
>> Oh, there's no question that we're going
to continue to see layoffs across the
economy in my opinion. You know, AI is
being talked about as a gamecher. It
really is. You're going to see
disruption too for I think amongst the
first time uh in areas of organizations
that have just never been affected by
this type of technology.
>> David, how does the consumer experience
change? You talked about advertising
being more targeted, how online
purchases have increased dramatically. I
just wonder how quickly consumers are
adapting to a world that's rapidly
shifting to a technology that not
everybody has wrapped their heads around
yet. Well, to put it in perspective, we
saw almost a 300% increment in
individuals youing utilizing artificial
intelligence platforms to do their
shopping at the beginning of this
holiday season. So, I think long term,
you're going to have an AI agent that's
going to represent you and the
organization that you're shopping with
is going to have an AI agent that's
going to represent them. and your agents
are going to negotiate your price and
help you figure out where you want to go
and what you're going to do.
>> So, do humans even matter? Right? At a
certain point are robots going to be
buying dresses for one another? David,
I'm just curious, you know, going
forward, at what point are we talking
about a consumer that is strong or weak
or a consumer that's irrelevant because
you've got bots speaking with each
other?
>> Well, the consumer is going to be the
ultimate purchaser. I think the AI is
going to make recommendations to the
consumer and they're going to have to
decide if they want to buy it or not.
they are money, so to speak. So, I I
think you're going to see disruption.
But the consumer, which in the United
States makes up the vast majority of our
GDP, is going to continue to be a very
important component of purchasing for
many, many years to come.
>> David, when it comes to the consumer,
how much is the spending right now
predicated off the fact that they know
that they're going to get tax rebates
next year?
>> Yeah, I mean, we're seeing tax rebates.
We saw a a meaningful reset,
interestingly enough, from the reopening
of the government. We saw the Zeta
economic index tick down just a little
bit after being up meaningfully the
month before. And we think a lot of that
came from the reset of everybody going
back to work in government. And then you
saw it going into the end of November,
the holiday shopping season, you know,
we saw sales up as much as 4% across the
economy. We think it's going to be a
very strong holiday season and we think
people are excited that the government
reopened. We think a lot of people are
excited about tax rebates and we think a
lot of people are excited about where uh
where their dollars are coming from
right now.
>> I'm so excited. I'll have your bot talk
to my bot. Maybe they can figure
something out. David Steinberg of Zeta
Global. Thank you so much for being with
us this morning. Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere. Here
is your Bloomer Brief, Bonnie Quinn.
[music] Bonnie, Lisa, thank you. A
Virginia man has been charged with
transporting explosive devices and
attempting quote malicious destruction.
Prosecutors claim Brian Cole Jr. placed
pipe bombs outside Republican and
Democratic National Committee
headquarters in Washington on the eve of
the January 6th, 2021 [music]
riot. US Attorney General Pam Bondi says
there could be more charges to come.
Warner Brothers Discovery entering
exclusive negotiations to sell its film
and TV studios and HBO Max streaming
service to Netflix. Sources are telling
us here in Bloomberg the streaming giant
is offering a $5 billion breakup fee if
regulators don't approve the deal. The
two companies could announce in the
[music] coming days.
More threads. A leading Chinese AI chip
maker jumped over 425% in its Shanghai
trading debut. The move fueling optimism
for China's goal of achieving tech
self-sufficiency amidst trade tensions.
More threads was founded by a former
Nvidia executive. [music]
And that is your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much Avani. Up next,
investing in AI power.
>> We're at the [music] beginning of this
technology buildout. AI is getting more
compute inensive, but the bottom line is
we need energy. [music] Abby Odor of JP
Morgan Private Bank joins us next as
people look to natural gas, people look
to copper and other resources in this
buildout boom. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Futures higher looking to get a fifth
day of gains. We're looking at a 210%
gain on the S&P yields marginally higher
as we do see uh potential expectations
[music] for a Fed rate cut leading to
stronger growth next year 411 on the
10-year. Take a look at the energy
space. Crude prices are lower by 210 of
a percent over this year. They have
dramatically [music]
plunged and this is sort of the
conundrum. If you believe that this is
an energy res uh really uh intensive
world, why is it that oil prices are
[music] down so much down 17% year to
date? Well, natural gas prices up
significantly in the United States at
record highs. They are up 42% year to
date. It is all about which power source
under surveillance this morning
investing [music] in AI power.
>> Our energy efficiency improves by five
times or 10 times each year. But the
problem is this. We're at the beginning
of this technology buildout. AI is
getting more comput inensive. The
adoption is going way up. I've got all
these exponentials. And so we're going
to keep chasing this, but the bottom
line is we need energy.
>> Here's the latest. Investors piling into
utilities as surging AI data center
demand drives up power needs. Abby Yodar
of JP Morgan Private Bank writing, "We
are still constructive on the market
despite a strong year-to-ate rally. Our
favorite themes are AI, power, and
defense." Abby joins us now. Abby, great
to see you.
>> Great to see you. So, I'd love to talk
about power and energy and what that
means given the fact that it's been a
hugely diverging fate depending on which
source of energy you're looking at.
>> Yeah, I know I know you just brought up
oil prices and I think you know we were
talking about this like it really is a
supply issue, right? like you have too
much supply on the market, they're
incentiv. And now when you think about
US producers, they can break even at a
lower price, right? So they can still
continue to do this and be profitable.
And when you think about oil
traditionally also, you have to think
about what's going on in emerging
markets and in particular in China,
right? You have a slowing economy there,
particularly on the consumption side. I
mean, really on the investment side as
well. So I think that's really weighing
on it too. It's out, you know, but then
you look at things like nat gas. You
think look at things like copper and
they're all doing really well because
they will be part of this, you know,
power infrastructure build in the United
States. And the way that we think about
accessing that is really through
utilities, right? Who are and
particularly the independent power
producers who are signing these
one-on-one contracts with the
hyperscalers to secure that that energy
and that that power demand off the grid,
right? And so you're not you're trying
to avoid which is becoming a political
thing, trying to avoid the the consumer
price increase as well.
>> Okay, there's a lot to unpack here. the
idea that a lot of big tech providers
are looking for energy sources outside
of the grid so that they're not
subjected to the political power so they
can get the other extra energy and it
raises questions about whether we are
seeing any of the overbuild in some of
these areas. Right? How do you discern
whether you're pricing in true growth or
whether you're justing you're pricing in
something that's going to be a stranded
asset in two years? Well, I think that,
you know, when you think about the
individual companies that are like there
are there's a particular NAT gas company
that is not willing to actually commit
to the a lot of these deals over a
5-year period because they they want to
avoid exactly that that. So, there is
like a lot of prudent decisionm at least
in our view on the independent power
producers who are saying, "Look, we're
not going to do this if we think this is
going to be a stranded asset." And
that's part of why like there's such a
backlog, right? there's a decision-m
process that does feel very thorough in
terms of thinking about, okay, we're
going to add here, but we want to think
about whether or not this will actually
be a stranded asset in the longer term.
And I would say also when you think
about the grid and how aged it is,
particularly when you think about
transmission lines being on average like
25 years plus, if we have this buildout
and we have this upgrade to the grid
overall, like that's a positive, right?
Even if these become quote unquote
stranded assets, if it's a data center,
for example, if we get the upgrade to
the grid that we've needed, but has been
like politically stagnant, that's a net
positive, right, over the longer term.
So, I think
>> you mentioned this becoming a political
problem. Um, and it is. We saw that
actually in the mid midterm elections in
Virginia and also in New Jersey. If
that's the case, do you expect
government intervention in the space
that you think is very bullish?
>> Well, I mean, you've heard inklings of
it, right? And I think that the goal is
obviously to avoid that. And I think
next year will be very important when we
think about you know how these companies
actually really construct these deals to
make sure that that doesn't happen. And
it's very I you know power and power
generation is very local right so it's
very difficult to think that at the
federal level they can have a meaningful
impact in terms of that decision-m
process. But I mean it really it started
coming up in conversations where I was
like this feels like it's going to be
the next healthcare right where it just
becomes a very like the it's a lot of
talk at the political level but like how
they address it will be very I think
niche in terms of the locality
>> if we don't see the buildout and we
don't see electricity there can AI
spending continue at this level
>> no I think that's the biggest risk I
truly think that when we think about
going into 2026 and obviously that's a
very bullish outcome for these utilities
and the and the power providers is is
that that is the bottleneck, right?
Especially in the United States. China
is a different story. They actually do
have that power capacity to be able to
build. We just really don't. And that's
the biggest thing. It's like, okay,
they're they're signing all of these
deals, but like is the do they have the
ability to actually deliver on it? Like
that's really uh and I mean that on the
power side. I don't mean that on the
tech advancement and all of that. I
think it's just we don't have the grid
to be able to support this. So, we
really need this buildout to be across
the entire grid, not just the data
centers. If your favorite trades are
defensives essentially, which is
utilities and then defense stocks,
right? I different kind of defensive.
I'm just wondering what your view is
then on how much the economy can meet
expectations, right? Is this sort of an
indictment of the idea that you're going
to get some sort of massive
reaceleration in the US consumer? Well,
I think I well, no. Um so we're not
we're not saying that we like being
bullish on utilities, defense and
actually healthcare as well is actually
not this defensive um posture and
negative outlook on the on the um United
States economy or markets. It's actually
just structural growth drivers, right?
Like you think about where policy money
is going and where all of the the spend
is going. It's to power. It's going to
defense. It's going to you know tech
obviously AI. And so that's kind of the
part of the process that we're thinking.
I know it kind of maybe screens at the
high level as defensive in nature, but
it's really more where are their
structural growth stories? Where are
dollars flowing? And that really leads
us to these these industries and
sectors.
>> Do you think that in general the way it
will manifest is in this broadening out
that we're seeing right now? Or do you
think that that's an oversimplification?
It's just that the AI trade is
broadening out, not that overall
economic engine uh is really broadening
out. No, I do think that we'll see the
overall economic engine brought out and
I broaden out and I do think look
inherently we went from being overweight
three sectors this year to being
overweight five. So that is suggestive
of a broadening out just generally
speaking. Um and we do think that
there'll be like a soft patch in in the
first half of the year. But this has
been a very very resilient economic
backdrop and just corporate backdrop
right we are at basically peak margins
in 3Q earnings. Um and so they've
navigated through what has been a very
difficult tariff situation and political
situation and we really are of the view
that we see another year of above
average earnings growth next year for
the for for the S&P 500 and that's
across all a lot of different sectors.
Abby, great to see you. Thank you so
much for being here. Abby of JP Morgan
Private Bank with that optimism
continuing to build on the week. What we
are seeing right now are deals and this
idea of how much more do we see in the
M&A space after the Netflix announcement
to buy Warner Brothers.
>> Netflix announcement is going to be so
interesting because there's been a lot
of regulatory scrutiny already and
Variety had this exclusive reporting
about prominent filmmakers writing to
Congress saying you cannot let this deal
go through. [music] That's why maybe
that $5 billion
uh sweetener if the deal doesn't get
regulatory approval was key to this.
[music]
>> Yeah. And we also see a $59 billion
bridge loan that banks are agreeing to
provide to Netflix for this deal.
Netflix shares lower by 2.3% [music] in
pre-market trading. Coming up, Nadia
Level of UBS, US Interior Secretary Doug
Bergam on that energy issue. Constance
Hunter of the Economist, Economist
Intelligence, and Michael Collins of
[music] Pim Fix Income.
We are still seeing that investors are
sitting on the sidelines of this market.
>> There has been a shift in sentiment and
you're starting to see some
deterioration in some of the key themes.
>> The equity market has to climb.
Basically, you know, the traditional
wall [music] of worry.
>> You have an equity market that broadens
and rotates a little bit.
>> As we think about next year, we do like
equities. We do like US equities in
particular. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and Ann Marie
Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks inching back to
record highs with optimism fueled by
ongoing resilience among US consumers.
All eyes turning [music] to next week's
Fed rate decision as potential Fed chair
Kevin Hasset supports that 25 basis
point rate cut and some dated inflation
[music]
as well as consumer sentiment data
coming up. Right now though, the focus
is squarely on the M&A space with
Netflix [music] agreeing to buy Warner
Brothers for almost $83 billion. So this
is going to be historic. This is the
dominant [music] streaming service t
going up against or with now one of the
rever studios out of Hollywood. It's why
there's going to be a lot of [music]
concern about the regulatory steps
forward and the scrutiny this is going
to come over come under. But also it is
pretty incredible that Netflix was
[music] this dark horse candidate. no
one was taking it seriously and that in
the end they were the ones that were
able to get the deal done and how
quickly we know they were going into
exclusive talks just last night but how
quickly they were able to get to the
finish line.
>> Yeah. And the financing behind it. I
think a lot of people are looking for
[music] some of the details there given
the fact that the $83 billion almost
will be paid for in [music] stock and
cash cash read debt. And what we are
getting is news this morning that
Netflix has lined up a $59 [music]
billion bridge loan from banks across
Wall Street. Wells Fargo, BMP, HSBC,
etc., which would be one of the largest
bridg bridge loans in [music] history at
a time where there's huge regulatory
risk for this deal. Absolutely. Which is
probably why they hadn't put up that $5
billion [music] that will be paid to
Warner Brothers if this falls through.
When you look at the bridge loan Lisa,
it is one of the biggest. [music]
Anheiser BushB obtained 75 billion of
loans back in its acquisition of SAB
Miller in 2015. So this is huge when you
look at historical perspective.
>> Yeah. And going forward, this is really
the backdrop [music] for why it's such a
complicated market heading into 2026. On
one hand, you've got a Federal Reserve
that is poised to [music] cut rates. You
have a consumer giving some mixed
signals in terms of just how strong you
are. And then you have capital markets
that are revving up for another year of
M&A, another year of relatively loose
financing [music] conditions. It is a
difficult backdrop for the Fed when they
meet next week, Wednesday. Absolutely
difficult backdrop. they're going to
have a lot more data, but then the week
after they're going to get the most
prime data [music] they've been waiting
for, which is the non-farm payrolls,
which potentially means that that could
really give us insight into [music] how
the Fed is going to act in January. What
Kelsey Barrow was saying, if we get that
weak labor report on December 16th, does
that mean we're going to get [music]
another Fed cut? Difficult moment for
the Federal Reserve, especially
uncertainty when it comes to things like
AIPA tariffs. It is a midterm election
year, so this administration is going to
want to make sure they continue [music]
the consumer impulse in the United
States. Will we get those $2,000 checks?
What does this mean for inflation? It's
going to be a little bit confusing.
Well, people keep buying. At least they
[music] keep buying stocks right now.
Equities across the board up actually
led by the NASDAQ right now. S&P futures
up about 2/10en of a percent, yields
higher. And really watch this space as
duration loses ground across [music] the
world this morning. 4.11%
on that 10-year. You are seeing uh just
quiet in the currency space. Coming up
this hour as we do prepare to get that
data is PCE [music]
data. Now the level of UBS with stocks
trading near all-time highs. US
Secretary of the Interior Doug Bergam
discussing the future of AI energy
production and Michael Collins of Pum
Fixed Income looking ahead to next
week's Fed decision. We begin this hour
with stocks steady as traders bet that
rate cuts will help drive a global rally
into the year end. Nadia level of UBS
Global Wealth Management writing, "We
think the outlook for stocks is positive
as we move toward 2026. With broadening
market performance, we expect the S&P
500 to hit 7700 by the end of next
year." Nadia joins us now. Nadia, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Great to see you. Thank you for being
here. So, how much is what you're
expecting for next year predicated on
the story that we've been hearing all
morning, which is that earnings are
doing pretty well and that companies
have actually been maneuvering through a
pretty difficult time in with a stellar
uh kind of performance. That is core to
our thesis. I mean, when we look at this
past year, the fact that we had above
trend economic growth despite the fact
that there was concerns around tariffs,
next year, we think that you're going to
see very healthy growth as well on on
the macro level, probably something
close to trend line 2% and that could
actually prove to be conservative as
you've been highlighting some of the
things um around the consumer into 2026.
We also have stimulus coming from the
one big beautiful bill act that should
also help. We also could see
productivity gains at least on the
margin as AI monetization starts to pick
up and then the M&A activity that we're
seeing. All of this together should be
able to drive some earnings growth of at
least 10% next year. And we're going to
see a broaden and out of that. You know,
historically, as you see in the last
couple of years, a lot of this has been
driven by the MAG 7, but we think that
that gap is going to narrow um next
year. And so that's what we think that
will push the S&P 500 up to 7,700. We've
seen the Russell 2000 in particular
outperform as people bet on this
broadening out hitting a record
yesterday. I just wonder how predicated
that is on Fed rate cuts, right? Do you
need to see substantial monetary policy
easing in order to get the broadening
out that so many people are betting on?
The broader now that we're talking about
is definitely within the large cap space
across more sectors just beyond tech
that has been driving this market. Can
you see small cap get a bit bit of a big
absolutely but at the end of the day
small cap is more of a macro trade. So
the economy is holding up and the Fed is
cutting. That's usually a good
environment for small cap and also
you're starting to see some recovery
potentially in the manufacturing side of
the economy that has been in a doldrum
for the last few years. We know that
small cap Russell 2000 is mostly uh
exposed to financials, right? So if
you're seeing pick up in M&A, if you're
seeing better credit environment, um the
the the steepness of the curve as well,
the long end the short end coming down,
that should be a positive from a
financing cost for small cap companies.
And so while we're neutral on small cap,
you could see them get a bit more
support in 2026.
>> Nadia, the way you're talking about
2026, it doesn't sound like the Fed even
needs to cut interest rates, but you
think they're going to continue.
>> We think that they will continue. We
think that you get at least one more cut
in the first quarter of next year. You
know, we right now, you know, the market
has really priced in the December cut.
We've long been there. The market has
been swinging back and forth, rightfully
so. We're not expecting any major
changes in the S&P and the dot plot at
this point. I mean, Powell probably
still feel like he's in a data fog. So,
we don't expect any major changes in
that, but maybe the SCP and the dot
plots don't matter all that much for
this meeting because reality is, you
know, we don't have all the government
data. We know that there's going to be
changes at the Fed, but we think that
you get um one cut next year because of
the soft in the first quarter of next
year because of the softness in the
labor market and then the Fed will wait
on hold and see how it goes. I mean, I
think that the the overall view is like
the the the risk is probably skewed to
more the the dovish side for obvious
reasons.
>> When it come Well, to Michael Har's
point though, if the Fed comes out and
say say the rhetoric is dovish alongside
with the cut, will that signal that the
Fed is more nervous about the economy
than most other people are?
>> I don't think that Powell is going to be
dovish in his rhetoric. We think that
this is probably going to be a hawkish
cut, right? again the dispersion that
you're seeing on the committee Powell
has to manage that when he messaged you
know uh uh in the press conference just
like he did in the last press conference
and so we think that the rhetoric uh
from Powell be very similar to what we
heard uh in in in October press
conference and a a hawkish cut not
looking for any sort of dovish
commentary next year we'll see it all
depends on who the chair is but at the
end of the day the chair is one vote you
know it is a committee um but if the
rhetoric around the chair is more
duffish that could also have
implications for market but we don't
think that that's a negative right we
think that this this administration is
going to do all that it needs to do
ahead of midterms election that word
affordability keeps coming up well this
is the reason why I think a lot of
people are looking to possibly outside
of the US for an outperformance right
and I wonder where you fall on that
because yes a lot of people seem to
agree that the S&P is going to do well
in 2026 but on a riskadjusted basis
currency adjusted basis maybe not the
outperformer
>> I'm so glad you asked that question Lisa
given my global title Um, so [laughter]
but we like Japan, we like Europe as
well, right? When you think about I
talked earlier about the potential for
that cyclical recovery. We already
seeing elements of that in Europe and so
that should be positive. We know that
Europe tends to be more cyclally focused
and also Europe does have those
structural growth not as much as the US
of course but data centers are being
built out there. Electrification is
happening. longevity and health care is
also happening in Europe and so we think
that that will help Europe defense
spending all of that should help Germany
and then Japan we know that we're
getting you know incremental information
around stimulus um for that economy that
should help in um in 2026 and the the
the the companies there are also going
through corporate reforms and we should
see a pick up in our ease and then we
were seeing upward revisions to earnings
in Japan so we think that that's also
look at Japan has done really well the
the last um several months and We think
that that continues in 26.
>> I wonder how complicated the backdrop is
for you given the fact that an
increasing number of countries are
choosing national champions and we're
seeing that over in the United States.
We're seeing that over in China with
some of the new AI startups that are
gaining preeminence. How do you decide
to play that? I mean, are you looking
for who the national champs are going to
be and getting behind them? Do you just
try to steer clear of that kind of
political interference? No. Well, we
think look this all goes back to the the
long state of diversification and that's
becoming even more important as we go
forward as there as all of these uh
governments support their economies
more. China, you know, I I failed to
mention China is actually in China tech
is one of our highest conviction ideas
for next year because the government is
leading more in supporting its um tech
industry and that localization of chip
is happening and we think that
monetization potentially around AI
happens faster in China than it is uh is
going to happen in the US because China
is really going after the consumer and
applying a more lowerc cost model. And
so I think that you have to sort of you
know have a diversified portfolio across
all of these markets because it's not no
longer that us just lead and everyone
else gets left behind. We think that uh
like the more boats are going to be
rising.
>> Well Nadia Levelville of UBS, thank you
so much for being with us this morning.
Nadia Levelvel of UB UBS global wealth
management and this is the reason why
people were so interested in Marian more
threads technology. The IPO over in
China that surged 425% in its debut. It
was chosen as a national champion. China
is looking to support some of its AI uh
incubators and this is a prime target.
>> Well, remember a few months ago the
administration said fine Nvidia, you can
sell your H20s to China and China said
no. Sent out letters to a bunch of
companies and firms said shrug these
chips. We are going allin on our own.
Which is why there's been this huge
debate within the administration. Do we
have higher export controls or do we get
China and others addicted to our tech?
That is a massive conversation and a
massive debate and they haven't truly
decided just yet.
>> Yeah, well, we'll continue that
conversation right now. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere. Here is
your Bloomberg brief with Bonnie Quinn.
Bonnie, [music]
>> Lisa, thank you. National Economic
Council Director Kevin Hasset said the
Federal Reserve should cut interest rate
at the meeting next week. Hasset expects
the central bank to cut by 25 basis
points and says he wants to quote get to
a much lower rate over the long run. His
[music] comments coming as speculation
grows that President Donald Trump is
preparing to nominate him to lead the
central bank.
The European Commission finding Elon
Musk's ex [music] nearly $140 million
for violating the EU's content
moderation law. It claims the social
network misled users with its paid for
[music] blue tick symbol and stonewalled
researchers's access to data. It marks
the first fine [music] under the EU's
digital services act. X has 90 days to
implement the changes or it could face
additional penalties.
And it's official. Netflix is acquiring
Warner Brothers Discovery in a deal
valued at $82.7 billion. [music] Netflix
now becomes the owner of the HBO
network, Warner Brothers Studios, Film
and TV Archive. It's so far beaten out
rival Suitors, Paramount, Sky Dance, and
[music] Comcast. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Bonnie. Up next, the
morning calls. We're going to be taking
a look also at that tie up between
Netflix and Warner Brothers and some of
the debt financing behind it. [music] A
$59 billion bridge loan from Wall Street
banks as Netflix tries to get through a
lot of regulatory hurdles. [music]
That's next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> There's a lot of almost reflationary
procyclical tones starting to weave
[music] their way uh through the
market's message here. And you know, you
look out to 2026 and I [music] think it
tells us that really the tone is
changing from, you know, after years of
all the excess liquidity being soaked up
by the speculative economy, I think the
excess liquidity is now being soaked up
by [music] the real economy moving
forward. Very important theme for us
into 26
>> and into 26. That was Chris Veron of
Strategus, a Barrett company talking as
increasing number of strategists [music]
get bullish on the prospect for US
equities right now feeling that
bullishness with futures up about 210 of
[music] a percent. You can see yields
continuing to climb up about two basis
points to 4.11%
and Bren is is basically flat. When you
take a look at natural gas prices,
[music] they have surged to the highest
going back to 2022.
They are higher by almost 4% this
morning with a real focus on just how
much further they [music] could go. It
is snowing in Washington DC, so people
are using their heat. Time now for the
morning calls. First up, truest raising
its price target on Alphabet to $350,
[music]
highlighting AIdriven efficiency gains
and e-commerce momentum. Next up, Morgan
Stanley upgrading MP materials to
overweight, [music] believing it is
positioned to benefit from US rare earth
policies. And finally, NEM initiating
coverage of Oaklo with a buy rating,
citing its quote advantage regulatory
position [music] in nuclear energy.
Those shares lower by almost 4%. We do
want to stick with energy. [music] 28
Democratic California lawmakers writing
a letter to the Trump administration
condemning plans to boost oil drilling
along the state's coastline. [music]
US Interior Secretary Doug Bergam joins
us now. Uh Secretary Bergam, thank you
so much for being with us. I want to
start with just how important it is
right now for the United States to
increase energy supplies across the
board, not just with drilling, but
across the board in fa the face of the
demand coming from AI.
>> Well, good morning, Lisa. Yes, it's
absolutely essential and this is part of
uh the just announced national security
uh plan that the uh white house has
released. Uh that that security plan
mentions energy 23 times. Uh there's an
entire section about energy dominance
and and folks should think about energy
dominance as the ability for the US to
sell energy to our friends and allies so
they don't have to buy it from
adversaries particularly those
adversaries that are either funding
terrorism or are are funding uh you know
wars actively funding war machines and
so it's it's core to the strategy right
now but it's also as you've talked about
on the show is about with AI because it
never before in a history have we been
able to convert a kilowatt of
electricity into intelligence The demand
for that uh regardless of stock prices
or stock movements the demand for AI for
intelligence applied to every job every
company every industry is going to
continue to increase the demand for
electricity around the world. Uh the US
as an energy dominant country now the
largest oil producer in the world
largest LG exporter in the world uh and
growing quickly. Uh with that strategy
it bodess well for the future of the US
both in terms of peace and in terms of
prosperity. Secretary, I'm sure you're
aware WTI is under $60 a barrel. What's
the impetus for the oil and gas
companies in the United States to
continue drilling wells at this price
level, which potentially could be a loss
for them?
>> Well, I think one thing that we know
that in the Trump administration, we're
cutting red tape so rapidly uh we think
uh that you know, one of the early
targets we had was cut 10% of the cost
away from those producers uh just by
cutting red tape. So if you think about
uh you know 60 bucks today might be what
67 bucks was a year ago because of the
uh the the our ability to take cost out
for those producers and there's example
after example uh whether it's from the
EPA the department of energy department
of interior where we've been able to
help reduce costs and of course this
industry has been better than almost any
in terms of gaining uh you know
productivity the shale producers now
drilling three mile laterals instead of
two mile laterals up to four mile
laterals [snorts]
uh in many places offshore. We've seen
examples overseas of people driving
building 10 mile laterals when they're
getting after the shale rock uh all with
the same small well pad on the surface.
So, you know, great for great for land
management and great for energy
production and and kudos to this
industry. This the entire shale
revolution has occurred through
innovation and that innovation is going
to continue and with AI applied to that
it's going to even get even better. So I
see that the the the leading companies
are getting their costs down uh even as
demand is going up.
>> But Baker Hughes is talking about
drilling radioactivity has fallen 16%
since Trump took office this year. The
president loves to talk about drill baby
drill. Do you expect that to change
those numbers to change next year?
>> Well, I think again I I'd have to take a
look at the at at the numbers when we
talk about drilling activity. In my home
state of North Dakota, we had uh number
of well the well count was going down,
but the miles of lateral productive rock
could be going up. And so, you know,
analysts have got to make sure that
they're actually keeping up with how
fast this industry is changing because
uh we've got uh again record production
uh occurring right now and we expect to
see records through uh through 2026.
>> One uh area where you have seen price
increases has been natural gas. natural
gas prices rising to the highest levels
in the US going back to 2022 and a real
question on how much the US can continue
to export to places like Europe in the
face of significantly higher prices here
in the United States. How do you plan to
sort of set policies so that the US can
be a big exporter to places like Europe
while not allowing prices to go up so
significantly in the future?
>> Well, again, the key is its supply and
its infrastructure. Uh we have places in
the US right now where again there's not
one price for gas in America as you know
I mean even though we've got the markets
and we've got you know Henry Hub but
we've got uh we we've got widely ranging
prices. I mean even in the difference of
price in Pennsylvania versus in New
England uh because of the lack of uh
natural gas pipelines that have been
blocked into places like New England.
And when we think about you think about
markets, you're talking about AI and
this the capital spend going against AI
where we're, you know, an AI factory
where we're where we're actually
creating and manufacturing intelligence.
Those those plants are going to go to
the places where states have low
electricity prices and policies are
setting price, not just markets. And
we've got policies in blue states around
our country. California uh you
[clears throat] mentioned California 63%
of California's oil is being imported
from foreign countries because of
blocking of pipelines coming into that
state. Uh the they have a record number
of internal combustion cars in
California. They have more internal
combustion cars than any other state has
cars. Uh and yet two refineries have
announced that they're shutting down in
California. Uh because of policies, not
because of lack of demand, not because
of lack of consumers. Uh and so what's
going to happen? You're going to you're
going to have uh oil tankers and refined
products coming into San Francisco Bay
and coming into Long Beach in record
numbers in California uh because of
policies. They will have higher gas
prices than than virtually any other
state. So again, we we we have a we have
a strategy in America to help every
state. the the Trump administration
wants to have low affordable energy
prices for everybody, whether it's
heating your home or driving your car or
or producing electricity for AI. Uh but
we're going to need the the
collaboration from uh states uh to make
sure and and if states don't want to
collaborate on that, then you're going
to see this uh trillion dollars of AI, a
historic amount of spend all going
towards states that have pro- energy uh
policies that drive down prices.
Secretary, we've seen a significant
increase in energy costs, especially for
individuals who live near data centers.
How is the US going to do both at once?
Both support these AI initiatives, but
also make sure consumers energy prices
remain affordable.
>> Well, if you said on the show, I mean,
the prices are are in electricity are
local, not national. And and so there
are the examples that you think we're
we're we're driving that analysis right
now and we're going to be publishing uh
that from the White House through the
National Energy Dominance Council. Uh
the Department of Energy doing great
work on that. But a lot of the higher
prices that you're seeing are not
related to the AI data centers. A lot of
the A data centers are going to be off
the grid behind the meter and then
producing adding more energy and then
and then putting some of that energy
onto the grid. So we could be actually
increasing the supply in some of those
areas where we've got increased pricing.
It's because of the policies they
pursued the last 5 years of of having
unreliable intermittent and highly
subsidized uh and pro projects uh
including things like offshore wind
where people were spending 11 billion to
create one gawatt of intermittent you
know versus spending one or two billion
dollars to create one gawatt of of
assured 7 by 24hour power. So the policy
choices of the last 5 years driven by uh
sometimes climate extremists were the
ones that were that were that are
driving up the prices that you're
seeing. I mean electricity costs three
times as much in New England as it does
in North Dakota. Uh that is not that is
not because of data centers. That's
because of policies.
>> US Interior Secretary Doug Bergam, thank
you so much. And definitely something
that we would love to keep talking about
given the fact that a lot of people have
talked about how certain places I'm
thinking of Arlington in particular uh
in Virginia right near Washington DC
have seen higher prices for electricity
bills due to artificial intelligence.
Commentary somewhat different there.
Bloomberg ran an analysis that found
that electricity now costs as much as
get this number 267%
more for a single month than it did 5
years ago in areas located near
significant data center activity.
[music] I hear him. A lot of this is
local, but also there's a tremendous
amount of competition right now between
the everyday user and the massive tech
companies looking [music] to build data
centers.
>> We're going to continue this
conversation coming up. Constance Hunter
of Economist Intelligence on what a
Kevin Hasset le Fed could mean for
markets. Plus, you hire on edge with
your morning movers. Another check on
Netflix and Warner Brothers. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> seeing a lift to end the week after a
really interesting week given the fact
that we started on a pretty soggy note
and then it's been about four
consecutive days of gains up [music] now
fading a little bit from earlier down up
just about a tenth of a percent on S&P
futures seeing a little bit of euro
strength a little bit of dollar weakness
11649 [music] really the question
heading into next year is how much does
this dollar weakness continue to mount
that we have seen over the past week or
do and watching yields. They've come
bought half some of the earlier highs.
Uh 4.11%
rounded up. Take a look at these
commodities. [music]
This to me is where the action is this
morning. On one hand, you've got natural
gas futures up 3.7%
[music] as people take a look at a how
cold it is and b how much that you need
to use energy in the face of all sorts
of technological gains and copper. Those
prices up 1.6% [music] in pre-market
trading. 1 hour away from the cash open.
Here is your morning movers with Yahara
Anna. Yahihira.
>> Hi Lisa. It's a blockbuster deal that
could reshape Hollywood. Netflix is
taking over Warner Brothers Discoveries
studio and streaming businesses in an
$83 billion [music] deal, wrapping up a
dramatic saga that was months in the
making. The deal pushes Netflix deep
into traditional Hollywood, managing a
100-year-old
studio and getting into the theatrical
business, an area that has not fully
embraced. And what also could be
weighing on the stock now extending its
losses down 4.3% [music]
is that sweetener that $5 billion
breakup fee if regulators don't approve
the deal. [music] Meanwhile, we are
seeing Victoria Secret surged uh
Victoria Secret shares surging 14% in
the pre-market after the retailer raised
[music] its fullear outlook in a sign
that the turnaround strategy is working
at the company. But now that we've
nearly wrapped up all the [music] retail
earnings, it's important to note the
strength we've seen with Ulta, Macy's,
American Eagle, Walmart. The list goes
on, all posting [music] upbeat numbers.
And we end on HP not seeing the same
luck, down nearly 10% in the pre-market
after it delivered a softer than
expected [music] sales outlook. A blow
um a blow to hopes that AI server demand
would drive a bigger jump in revenue.
And [music] part of that weakness was
due to order delays with the CEO saying
that [music] big US government and
European deals slipped into 2026. That
was due to a [music] data center not
being up and running and the US
government shutdown which is getting a
lot of blame this morning. Lisa,
>> thank you so much uh Yahra and wonderful
work all week and honestly blame because
maybe they deserve it. I mean come on,
some of this data coming out of
Southwest, let's be honest.
>> And it's not Southwest's fault. [music]
What are the these some of these
airlines supposed to do? The demand's
not there because the government is shut
down. Longest [music] in history, more
than 40 days, and you can't make that
up,
>> which is the reason why we're seeing
some revisions to fullear profit
forecasts from [music] the likes of
Southwest. And we also heard a similar
note from Delta. Let's turn to how the
Fed's going to respond. NEC director
Kevin Hasset seen as President Donald
Trump's likely picked to be the next Fed
chair. Constance Hunter of Economist
Intelligence saying a Hassetled Fed
could go in multiple directions.
writing, "If the hassid who wrote about
the dilitterious effects of inflation
shows up at the Fed, the markets should
feel relieved. If his loyalty to the
president shows up, markets may show
concerns." Constance joins us now.
Constance, great to see you. Thank you
so much for being here.
>> I want to start with why we haven't seen
more concern in markets yet. Because
ultimately, if you're looking to the
market as a barometer of fear, you're
not seeing any huge red flags.
>> No, you're seeing zero fear. Um and and
part of that could be that markets are
looking sort of short term, right? They
know that there's going to be another or
think that there's going to be another
Fed rate cut in December. Also, it's the
makeup of the Fed, right? The Fed was
designed as an institution to be immune
from political pressure. So whether
you're talking about the terms of the
governors, whether you're talking about
the way the regional presidents are set
up. So all of this is a very intricate
timing game. I think the markets are
betting on the fact that the Supreme
Court will punt the decision to after uh
February and so therefore Lisa Cook will
remain in place. Right? That's really
critical because if you have uh a
threshold of five or four governors,
they can uh overrule the president's
terms. So there's there's a lot going on
in terms of timing and I think the
market is betting on a few things that
will keep that independence in place
regardless of who is Fed chair. But also
if you look at Kevin Hasset's work from
before he joined the first Trump
administration it really centers on the
importance of keeping inflation low
because the tax code is geared towards
benefiting low firms during periods of
low inflation. Right. Right. So it
depends on which Kevin Hasset shows up.
Yeah, it depends on which economy shows
up too, right? Because ultimately,
you're at the behest of the market and
of the economy. Right now, we're kind of
flying in the dark because we aren't
getting a lot of real-time data. We
should we should have just gotten the
nonprof payrolls report. Sorry. Uh news
flash, we're not getting it until
December 16th, but right now we are
looking to September PCE report coming
up in about 90 minutes time. I mean,
what do they do with this? How do we
understand whether inflation is the
bigger problem or whether it's the labor
market? Well, we pretty much know what
the PC report is going to say with
regard to inflation because a lot of
that is derived from the CPI and the
PPI. So, we think it's about Z uh 2.9%
for a headline, 0.22% for uh core. Those
are both month-over-month numbers,
right? Um the more interesting thing is
going to be looking for any signals in
the wage and income data. And so, we are
looking for a little bit of softness in
the wage data, but that's going to give
an indication of the strength of the
labor market. When you say which Kevin
Hassid shows up, isn't he being chosen
because the one that is going to be
Donald Trump's chief marketer when it
comes to the economy, isn't it going to
be him that is going to listen to him
when it comes to lower rates because
it's the only reason why he's being
chosen?
>> I don't think it's the only reason why
he's being chosen. I mean, he is an
economist who has a long track record of
uh being in DC being a policy maker. he
basically crafted the TCJA and um he was
very influential in the car's act. So I
think he I think he is he's being chosen
for those reasons. But remember he's
going to have to convince his fellow
board members and the presidents who are
going to be voting next year that um
that his policy direction is the
direction that the Fed needs to go in.
And that is a big question mark. I mean
that is he's going to have to use a
framework and he's going to have to
think about policy within that
framework. And keep in mind we have the
benefits of the one big beautiful bill
act coming uh the delayed uh tax
refunds. We're looking for uh over 3%
GDP growth in the first quarter about 3%
in the second and about 3% in the third.
How do you cut rates into that
environment? Do you think that
potentially the rebates we're going to
get, the one big beautiful bill, and the
fact that this administration is talking
about $2,000 checks is going to make the
inflation picture that much harder for
the Fed next year?
>> Well, the $2,000 checks I think we need
to put aside because who knows, but they
keep talking about potential and it's a
midterm election here.
>> Yes, fair enough. Um but uh yes that
would that would put more money in
people's pockets and it would be a make
them with a able to withstand price
increases because I think what you've
seen with the tariffs is a lot of
concern about people's ability to handle
price increases. Firms have absorbed
some of that tariff uh increase. They've
reduced hiring in order to to sort of
compensate for that. And so the question
is how much are they going to be able to
pass on? It would stand to reason if
people have more money in their pockets,
companies are going to be able to pass
on bigger price increases.
>> We're talking about a Federal Reserve
that's set to ease policy and we're
talking about pain among the consumer
base at the same time that Wall Street
is talking about enthusiasm for mergers
and acquisitions. We've been talking all
morning about this deal of Netflix
agreeing to buy uh Warner Brothers.
We're talking about returns that are
likely to be above 10% on the S&P next
year. Is this a potential headwind or a
tailwind for uh central bankers that are
both looking for some sort of boost from
consumption that will come with more of
the wealth effect but also could
potentially be fueling froth in markets
that seem pretty accommodative?
>> So it all comes down to productivity,
right? If if we really are getting the
productivity gains um and not just from
when we say AI, right? It's not just
generative AI and chat GPT but the
productivity gains from just regular AI
right are still being diffused
throughout the economy and and that is
an important driver of productivity
growth. So it really comes down to are
we in a period of enhanced productivity
growth in which case the markets are not
excessively frothy in which case the Fed
has a lot more room to maneuver because
ultimately that will help inflation but
there's going to be a lot of noise in
the first and second quarter in the
data. uh and it's going to be very in
difficult to interpret the underlying um
you know factors that are happening in
the economy
>> as opposed to the easy market that it's
been to really decipher. Constance
Hunter, thank you so much for being with
us today. Constance Hunter of Economist
Intelligence here in studio right now.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomer brief with Bonnie Quinn. Bonnie,
>> Lisa, thank you. The US urging several
countries in the European Union to block
the EU's plan to use frozen Russian
central bank assets to back a massive
loan to Ukraine. According to European
diplomats familiar with the matter,
officials are arguing to member states
that the assets are needed to help
secure a peace deal between Keefe and
Moscow and should not be used to prolong
the war.
The US Senate is seeking to ban Nvidia
from shipping advanced AI chips to
China. They've introduced bipartisan
legislation now to prevent the Trump
administration from easing export
controls. This all comes amid reports
that the Trump administration had been
considering relaxing restrictions on
exports to [music] China. The bill urges
maintaining rather than loosening those
export controls.
FIFA conducting the men's World Cup draw
at the Kentucky Center in Washington
today. The draw determines which
opponents all 48 teams will eventually
face in the initial group stage. The
ceremonies kick off at noon. President
Trump is hosting the festivities with
performances from Andrea Belli [music]
and the Village People. The World Cup
starts next June with matches in Canada,
Mexico, and the United States. And that
is your Bloomberg brief, Lisa. Thank you
so much, Vonnie. I would like to see
Andrea Belli sing [music] YMCA. I think
that they
>> definitely that is definitely not going
to happen, but that would be funny. I
have to say though, I love Andrea
Bochelli. I saw him recently at the Met.
Did some amazing [music] Italian opera.
He's performing also next week in New
York. The village people should perform
Italian opera. And I think that Andrea
Patelli should do YMCA. YMCA. Maybe
we'll do the dance.
>> It would be it would be really it would
be a viral moment. Up next, setting you
up for the day ahead. Plus, Michael
Collins of Pium [music] Fixed Income
looking ahead to next week's Fed
decision and the glut of corporate debt
issuance on the heels of all of the M&A
activity. From New York, this is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> the Fed is [music] likely to deliver not
just the December rate cut but also one
in January. But more importantly, just
from a market probability perspective,
[music]
I think that ahead of the jobs report on
December 16th, which coincidentally
comes after the Fed's decision, um that
you should be pricing in a probability
for January that's really closer to
[music] 5050.
>> That was Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan
Asset Management as people game out not
just the Fed rate decision next week,
but also heading into the new year
[music] potentially with new leadership.
Right now you do have new leadership in
the market. You have the NASDAQ
outperforming once again. S&P futures
are lower on the heels of some deals
news which we'll get into in just one
second. Yields higher uh almost to 412
on the 10-year yield rounded up
otherwise fluctuating around trying to
find some ground and [music] definitely
some interesting action in the commodity
space. The real move and the focus this
morning has been on this Netflix deal.
This agreement to buy Warner Brothers
Discovery. Right now you're seeing
Netflix uh shares [music] futures
falling 4.2%.
Warner Brothers Discovery shares surging
almost 4%. A real question here about a
the valuation. It would be a $72 billion
equity value deal. It would be an $83
billion enterprise value of this deal,
but also the financing [music] of it. We
will get into that in a second. Counting
down to the opening bell. Here is the
trading diary for today into next week
10 a.m. Eastern September. poor PCE data
as well as University of Michigan
sentiment. This is the data that we're
getting because we're not getting
non-farm payrolls. [music] Not that I'm
bitter. 3 p.m. Eastern. Trump signing
executive orders. On Monday, Toll
Brothers reporting earnings after the
bell. [music] Tuesday, we get that jolts
job openings data. On Wednesday, an FOFC
rate decision followed by Fed Chair
Jerome Powell's [music] press
conference. Let's stick with the Fed
ahead of next week's meeting. Michael
Collins of PG of Fixed Income joining us
[music] now for more. And Mike, I'd love
to get your take on on the Fed and we'll
get into of course the corporate debt
issuance that we're seeing in the
market. But starting on the Federal
Reserve, I guess I'm trying to
understand the market's reaction
function to any of the data coming in in
real time. We're getting dated data.
We're not going to be getting non-firm
payrolls until after next week's Fed
meeting. How do you sort of get a game
plan to understand what the Fed's
response mechanism is to a very
uncertain backdrop? Yeah, the good news
is, Lisa, we're going to get a lot of
data, right? I'm just looking at, you
know, today at 10 o'clock, we're getting
hit with, you know, a couple dozen uh
data points and we'll have a lot of that
coming through over the next few weeks.
It will be a lot for the market to
digest. And I really do believe the
reaction we've seen so far in the
Treasury market, in Fed funds, futures
have been driven uh by the data, right?
I mean, all this talk about the
politization of the Fed and and what
that means for the shape of the curve. I
I really don't think there's been any
notable market reaction to that at all
yet. It's all driven by the date and of
course some of the Fed speakers like
Williams came out in the last few weeks
really cementing uh the rate cut next
week. But I mean it's this is fun,
right? This is what you do as a as a
bond investor, as a market participant.
You you parse the data, you look at it,
you overanalyze it, and you try to
figure out the path of the economy, the
path of inflation, the path of of
growth, the path of the labor market. I
mean, the Fed is in the same boat as us,
right? they're going to be seeing all
this uh staleish data for the first
time, you know, and and I think that
there's a big question about what
they're going to do next year. I mean, I
think there's almost as good of a chance
that they they don't hike don't cut as
as they cut, you know, 50, which is
which is priced in.
>> Mike, this is exactly the point that a
lot of people keep coming back to. Are
we talking about a bond market that is
embracing weakness that we're just not
seeing? And are we seeing risk assets
embrace the strength that the bond
market isn't recognizing? How are you
much are you looking to financial
conditions? And I'm talking about some
of the M&A activity. I'm talking about
the glut of AI related corporate debt
issuance and sort of give that as a read
on just how accommodative or restrictive
monetary policy actually is.
>> I mean, if you just think about it,
Lisa, right, and if you're the Fed and
you're looking at the inflation date,
inflation data, which arguably has been
a little more benign, so maybe it's
going to go from three to two and a half
over the next year. The growth data, the
real data in the economy seems to be
really solid and as as you've heard, you
know, more people are kind of in
increasing their GDP forecast for next
year kind of from the ones uh to the
twos and even, you know, you hear some
some three handles. The labor market,
yeah, is weakening, but it's it's
resilient. Financial conditions are
easy. I mean, the stock market is
hitting new highs almost every day. And
if you look at those projections you
showed earlier in your show, the the
street is calling for somewhere between
an 11 and 17% increase in the S&P 500
next year, right? It's like, wow, if
you're the Fed, would you ever even
think about cutting in that world,
right? So, you're really uh basing your
assumption if if you're looking for cuts
and if if you're the Fed planning to cut
that the labor market side really gets
gets quite a bit weaker. I mean, we look
at the economy, right? And it's kind of
running on a two-legged stool, Lisa,
right? You have this wealth effect,
which is so powerful. It is sustainable,
and it does have a, you know, a drop
down effect, a trickle down effect. And
then you have the AI capex and all this
technology investment, whether it's
through borrowing or or equity, you
know, market appreciation. Those two
things are driving GDP. You take those
two things away, Lisa, US real GDP is
close to zero, right? And you could
argue the two legs of that stool are
kind of two sides of the same coin,
right? If the stock market tanks, the
wealth effect gets hit. And so, so there
is, you know, the the US economy is on
some, you know, um, weak footing. So,
you could be in a situation at any point
in the next 6 to 12 months where you do
get a leg lower, uh, in the job market
and the economy. And in that case, you
know, the Fed's not going to cut twice,
right? they'll probably cut four times.
So that's kind of the market dilemma.
The markets are pricing in two and you
know you could have this you know
downside scenario which results in a lot
more than that. Of course as you
mentioned the upside risk is something
we're spending a lot more time in our
shop talking about right where maybe the
Fed cuts too much i.e. you have a policy
mistake. The curve does continue to
steepen which it has a lot. Uh and you
know financial conditions continue to
ease and the stock market continues to
boom and that doesn't end well either
right so these two big tail risks are
generally bad over the intermediate term
for for risk assets including our
favorite you know credit product.
>> Mike just to get specific here we are
seeing a lot of debt and you talked
about the AI related debt. We're seeing
this morning this deal. Netflix agreeing
to buy Warner Brothers Discovery for an
equity valuation of $72 billion, a 59
billion bridge loan being offered up by
a number of banks. Does this concern
you? Does this feel a bit like the 2006
2007 LBO booms uh that were really
taking hold then or is this actually
something that the credit markets can
absorb? you know, M M&A risk and and
deregulation
are are two big risks to the credit
markets, right? Uh those behaviors tend
to be late cycleish behaviors. Uh they
tend to lead to more speculative
activity among corporate, you know, CEOs
and CFOs, more debt issuance, more
leveraging up of of corporate America.
And I think we're we're kind of, you
know, in the middle innings of of that
part of the cycle. So, yeah, it it does
worry. If you look at credit spreads
this year, Lisa, they're basically
exactly where they were a year ago or at
the beginning of the year. They haven't
really changed, meaning you've earned
your carry or extra yield over
treasuries, which is a good thing
because we haven't had a lot of
defaults. Credit quality is generally
pretty good, but the supply wave in and
of itself will put pressure on credit
spreads. I mean, our base cases that
spreads kind of leak a little wider and
you maybe earn a little bit less than
just your carry or extra spread next
year. And a lot of that is supply
driven, but some of it I think is just
the the increasing increasing
speculative behavior and speculative
nature of a lot of this this supply and
and corporate behavior.
>> So maybe more 2006 than 2007. Mike
Collins of PJ Fix Income. Thank you so
much for being with us this morning.
Let's stick with that big deal. Netflix
acquiring Warner Brothers Discovery in a
massive cash and equity deal. What we're
seeing right now is Netflix shares lower
by about 3.7 uh%. Gita Ranganathan of
Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now.
Now, Githa, you've had some time to look
over how this deal is going to get
financed, how this deal is going to get
through. What's your sense of anything
that stands out to you in terms of
whether this has been something
long-standing, whether this came
together in a rush for Netflix to get
this over the finish line?
>> Yeah, I mean, this is definitely a huge
surprise, Lisa. I mean, we we did not
really expect Netflix to make this big
bold move. They've always historically
stayed away from acquisitions of this
type. uh and you know they themselves
have said many times that you know M&A
in the media space has kind of a choppy
track record. Uh so definitely something
that we think they saw as a once- in a
generational opportunity. I mean this is
an iconic studio with very very beloved
franchises and it's you know it's of
course it's a very expensive transaction
as you pointed out you know $83 billion
enterprise value but again it's it's for
them I think it's not just the cost of
the deal it's the cost of not doing the
deal and they're playing playing the
long game here just kind of a very
defensive strategy for Netflix.
>> How difficult is the DOJ probe going to
be and the antirust concerns in
Washington when it comes to this deal?
Yeah, it's definitely going to raise a
lot of red flags. There's already been a
lot of chatter about how this basically
combines the number one streaming
service in the world with over, you
know, 320 million subscribers, you know,
along with HBO Max, which has about 130
million which is the number three
service. So obviously uh that there are
going to be some concerns. Netflix is
however kind of I would say flipping the
script a little bit saying that this is
actually good for consumers. They're
going to be able to offer both the
services actually at a discount. So
overall, it's actually going to be a
good thing, but of course we have to
wait and watch, see how that plays out.
>> Etha, just about a minute left. How much
is this the path of travel? Everyone's
going to try to consolidate as much
share as possible and then say, "Look,
you're getting a discount from buying
both from buying both subscription
services. You only get one for the
increased price of just 10% more."
>> So, historically, we've seen that
bundles actually work really well. Uh,
and they're not completely wrong when
they say that, you know, uh, it it is it
does provide good value to consumers. I
mean, we've seen bundles from Netflix,
from not not from Netflix, but more from
Disney, from other companies. You know,
bundles are about 40 to 45% cheaper than
if you're if you were to buy the
standalone pro uh you know, uh products.
So, they they do have it does have some
merit. Uh but then again, we do see the
costs of all of these services kind of
constantly rising and there is going to
be a breaking point.
>> Keith Ranganathan, thank you so much.
I'm sure we'll be catching up with you
as we get more details. A really
interesting deal. AMH I just wonder what
other competitive impulse there's going
to be in the media space to compete on
this level to really kind of do
something similar.
>> Well, you know, the appetite is there
because Comcast and Paramont really
wanted this deal and there was a bidding
war for it. Netflix sort of came out
dark horse from from behind. Not a lot
of people were expecting this as Gita
has been talking about and I think given
this deregulatory environment, the
consolidation we've already seen the
media landscape, there's going to be a
lot more but it is not a done deal yet.
ton of regulatory scrutiny on this deal.
>> Yeah, Warner Brothers saying this in a
filing just crossing. This decision
reflects the realities of an industry
undergoing generational change. So,
watch this space. [music] Coming up on
Monday, Christian Noling of Deutsche
Bank, Henry Drae of Veta Partners, Kevin
Foley of JP Morgan, and Sevita
Supermanian of Bank of America from New
York. [music] This was Bloomberg
Surveillance. Have a wonderful weekend.
>> [music]